Cc: diesel-Vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com, vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
Date: Sat, 2 Sep 2006 16:43:36 -0700
To: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com, buspilots(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Update: Sept 8-10 -- 10th Annual WetWesites/BusPilots ReUnion

Update: 10th Annual WetWesties/BusPilots ReUnion

Six days to go!

As of yesterday afternoon, according to the ranger head office,  
campfires are permitted in Catherine Creek State Park.  I'm going up  
and forewarn the camp host that we're on our way and get the latest  
info from "on the ground."  Still, just to cover the bases, you  
probably want to pack charcoal. All it takes is one little lightening  
strike and all bets are off. (Just got back from introducing the Camp  
Host to WetWesties.  Campfires are on!)

Seven day forecast says mid-eighties daytime and mid-forties  
nighttime. Dry.

Please consider joining us in our celebration of good buses, good  
food and good friends. This event has been held yearly at Catherine  
Creek State Park outside of Union Oregon on the first weekend  
following Labor Day since Jack, Cris and friends joined a select  
group of Boise Bus Pilots here in 1996.

Lisa and I will coordinate the camping fees. When you arrive, just  
tell the Camp Host that you're with WetWesties and they'll point you  
the right direction. Cost will be $6.50/vehicle/night. Multiple  
vehicles per site is fine.  Parking on the grass is NOT fine.

State Park Info:
<http://www.oregonstateparks.org/park_17.php>

Note: CCSP is in a canyon. Analog cell phone coverage is spotty and  
digital is non-existent. Mom won't be able call you.

 From Portland:
<http://www.mapquest.com/directions/
main.adp?go=1&1a=&1c=Portland&1s=or&1z=&1y=US&do=nw&1ex=1&2ex=1&src=maps
&ct=NA&2a=&2c=Union&2s=OR&2z=&2y=US&2pn=&2l=ieUK3E4kzuM%3d&2g=swqDPeMomF
3rdoAI%2f2aVKQ%3d%3d&2v=CITY&2pl=>

 From Seattle:
<http://www.mapquest.com/directions/
main.adp?go=1&1a=&1c=seattle&1s=Wa&1z=&1y=US&do=nw&1ex=1&2ex=1&src=maps&
ct=NA&2a=&2c=Union&2s=OR&2z=&2y=US&2pn=&2l=ieUK3E4kzuM%3d&2g=swqDPeMomF3
rdoAI%2f2aVKQ%3d%3d&2v=CITY&2pl=>

 From Boise:
Just follow EJ, Brent, Chris and Lind. They know the best way. And
Mapquest doesn't! ;o)

 From anywhere else:
You're going here (the little green rectangle on hwy. 203):
<http://www.mapquest.com/maps/map.adp? 
address=&city=Union&state=OR&zipcode=&country=US&title=%20Union%2c% 
20OR%20US&cid=lfmaplink2&name=>

If you get here early, and you've not been here before, we own the  
east end of the campground. Drive to the end of the park and pick a  
spot. (But not by the bridge. That's MINE!) Double up at will. Triple  
up if you need, but STAY OFF THE GRASS! (I promised...)

If you haven't been here before, you might also enjoy this for a  
little background: <http://wetwesties.type2.com/2003/re-union- 
observer.htm>

As always, plan on a potluck Saturday night and if we can get it  
together, a potluck b'fast Sunday AM. Lisa will be happy to answer  
any food questions! <whitedov(-at-)eoni.com>

So please! Put it on your calendar. We look forward to seeing all our  
old friends. Both those we know and those we haven't yet met.

Jim & Lisa Arnott
WetWesties
Union, OR
