Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2004 09:52:24 -0800 (PST)
From: Tom Forhan <fourwdvw(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Karl Mullendore <thewestyman(-at-)mindspring.com>, splitties
Subject: Last Call: Tenth Annual Mid-Atlantic Holiday Bus Fest  

One more reminder -10 years of inviting all you fine
folks to our home!

This is a family event in beautiful downtown Takoma
Park MD, inside the Washington DC beltway. Kids, dogs,
significant others are welcome and will find there is
much more to do than just talk VWs. The local
merchants are having their annaul holiday weekend sale
event, so you could check that out as well. Funky,
interesting stores abound just a block away.

Back to the party: bring something to share and help
us celebrate a decade of these great get togethers.
Photos of many of the past events are at Tom
Carrington's site, http://volksweb.relitech.com .

Long distance travellers are welcome to camp in the
driveway, but spaces are limited so reserve yours now!


We are always happy to help bus owners get together to
find that elusive part they need, so if you want to
bring something down that might be of interest to
others, fine, however this event is in the middle of a
residential neighborhood keep it subtle and don't plan
to set up any tables or the like. 

If you know you are going to attend, feel free to drop
me a line so we can get a vague head count. If you are
not sure, or time frees up at the last minute, don't
worry about it and just come!

Hope to see you Saturday!

Michele Moriarty and Tom Forhan
