Date: Thu, 2 May 2002 23:04:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Rebuild stuff for sale!!! Last chance!!

Hello List,

I just wanted to try offer these items to the list one
last time before I try selling them on Ebay. I have a
set of NIB Goetze NFORM Kolbenringe 1700cc piston
rings. I was quoted a price of $45.00 for these the
other day. I will let them go for $36.00 with free
shipping. The next thing I would like to sell is a set
of 1700 piston rods. They have been refurbished and
new bushings have been pressed in. I paid $45.00 for
these. I will let them go for 45.00 FREE SHIPPING. The
price of these is probably less than you would pay to
have your shipped off, rebuilt, and shipped back to
you. The last item that I have for sale is a NIB set
of sodium exhaust valves. These are sealed in their
origional sleeves in the origional box. These were
made by TRW International S.A of Geneva, Switzerland.
They were made in Germany. I am selling these for
$67.00 free shipping. The person that I bought these
from said that the retail over $120.00 a set. These
valves are perfect for the bus application. They
transfer heat much more efficiently than stock exhaust
valves. They would be the perfect upgrade to your next
valve job. These will fit 72-79, except for 1974 34mm
valve, also 80-83 Vanagon.

All items that I listed as having free shipping are
for people living in the contential US only. The free
shipping is regular parcel post shipping. I will ship
to other locations and I can also ship it at a
different class (I.E. priority mail, 1st class,
insurance, tracking number, ect.) but it will cost
more. Please email me if anyone is interested. I am
saving up toward my new engine. Thanks again!

David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com 


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Health - your guide to health and wellness
http://health.yahoo.com
