Date: Tue, 29 Apr 2008 18:56:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Starting Problems

I'll address this as a bus starting problem. The power
goes from the battery directly to the solenoid via
massive cable to power the starter. From the solenoid
terminal, power goes all the way to the front of the
bus where it gets distributed here and there, one
place is the ignition/start switch. There are contacts
inside the switch for "run" and for "start". from the
switch, the power goes here and there, but from the
"run" position it ultimately powers the coil and in FI
units, the double relay from where it goes to the fuel
pump and etcetera stuff... The "start" position wire
goes back to the solenoid and closes the circuit to
power the magnet that moves the solenoid piston which
moves the starter gear and closes the BIG switch to
the starter (also powers the double relay
temporarily).

Okay - there are long skinny wires that were adequate
when new. They don't wear out, but they corrode under
the insulation, sometimes as much as an inch in from
the ends. Power Loss. In moving a little bit here and
there thousands or millions of times over the life of
the bus, some areas of the wire have deteriorated
enough to have more resistance. Power Loss. Wire end
connectors corrode. Switch contacts wear down and also
corrode, as well as the mechanical parts inside the
switch wearing so that maybe the contacts don't
contact so well anymore. Big Power Loss.

Back to the solenoid, they are open enough for dust to
build up inside and either interfere with the free
movement of the piston or, combined with moisture
and/or heat, seize the piston altogether.

You have probably read about hard-start relays and
wondered what that meant. They are a relay that takes
very little power to operate that provide a direct
route from the battery (+) terminal (at the solenoid)
to the solenoid magnet circuit, allowing for full
battery voltage to activate the solenoid instead of
having to run all the way up front and back again. As
bad as that circuit to the front and back again is,
chances are there is always gonna be enough juice to
activate the hard start relay.

Arguments against hard-start relays involve the fact
that you have not fixed anything by installing one.
You have just pushed the time of total failure of the
circuit backwards a while. Eventually you will need to
replace the key switch innards and either replace the
complete wire or at least clean the ends up with
muriatic acid or some such and/or replace terminals
and contacts. The relays also fail. The part the
solenoid plays as being worn or dirty will only get
worse.

On my bus, the circuit failed me after I drove the
piss out of the bus and got it good and hot - or in
spring and fall - the two times of year that battery
terminals need cleaning and so do all the other
connections, due to changes in moisture in the air.
The reality was, after I drove Bussy really hard, he'd
wait until I parked over a really nasty mud hole or
greasey-oily puddle and then refused to start. It's a
quick and easy "Slide under the bus just ahead of the
right-rear wheel and use a wrench or screwdriver to
short across from the bat terminal to the solenoid
terminal" from which you can almsot always just return
to the front and the regular circuit will work - if
not, take it out of gear, turn the key to "run" and
then crawl under and do the same thing but hold it
until the engine starts.

My solution to the problem was to add a starter
pushbutton in the engine compartment. One day I had
been particularly obnoxious on the freeway, stopped
for lunch, Got back in (in a rain squall) and turned
the key and nothing happened. I swear when that
happened I could hear Bussy snickering at me! I walked
around back, opened the engine compartment, pushed the
button and the engine started. I SWEAR to you I never
had to use it again EVER after he realized that I had
that switch! It works good for setting points though!

The relays I refer to are just about any 12V relay.
The circuit doesn't draw much, but I think I would use
a 10 amp relay if I was to buy, like a Radio Shack
one. I used an old Dodge/Chrysler headlight relay for
years. I understand there are Bosch hard start relays,
but have never seen one.

I will e-mail you a diagram of the back of the
solenoid in a separate email. -BaH



--- "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
wrote:

 OK...before I go on, I know this is a little
 off-list-topic since it is
 directly about the 72 Beetle I drive every day, but
 the principles do apply to
 Type 2s as well.  Also, I know the list, and the
 library, is full of people
 who are frustrated with similar problems but no two
 problems seem to be
 exactly the same.  Besides, I have been trying to
 find the solution to this
 problem for weeks and I may be stranded here at work
 unless I do a "Little
 Miss Sunshine" push-off in a few hours.
 
 Here is the situation:
 1. Turn ignition switch...click of solenoid but does
 not turn over.  This is
 intermittent.  Sometimes would not happen for weeks.
  Gradually got worse.
 Then wouldn't start once or twice a day.  Now more
 persistent problem.
 
 2. Thinking it was the solenoid on the starter, I
 replaced the starter with
 another one I had on my bus (Type 2 reference)
 
 3. Problem still exists but is intermittent.
 
 4. Jumpered connection between battery connection on
 starter to spade
 connector that goes to switch.  Solenoid engages and
 will typically start
 afterwards.
 
 

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.


      ____________________________________________________________________________________
Be a better friend, newshound, and 
know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile.  Try it now.  http://mobile.yahoo.com/;_ylt=Ahu06i62sR8HDtDypao8Wcj9tAcJ
