From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "'type2 list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Jul 2004 19:12:12 -0400
Subject: Ron out thru Sun.

I'll be at the Grassroots Music Festival near Ithaca, NY thru Sunday
night, so any email sent to my personal accounts probably will not be
read until my return. If you email the shop at sales(-at-)busdepot.com they
will, of course, be open as usual and answering email or phone calls.  

If anyone's going to the festival, look for a bunch of Westies with a
"steal your face" flag flying that has a VW emblem in the middle and
stop and say hi. We're going to be in On-site Vehicle Camping on the
festival grounds. My Westy is the one with the BUS DEPO vanity license
plate. 

Here's a link to the fest if you're interested:
<http://www.grassrootsfest.org/Trumansburg/>

In other news, our computer system was down for the better part of two
days. We're up and running again now, so we'll be shipping a ton of
boxes tomorrow. (Even while the system was down we kept packing, so we
could just slap labels on the boxes when it went back up.) The crash may
cause about a day or so delay on ground orders that were placed early
this week or late last week. Hopefully not, as we are working overtime
to prevent it, but it's possible.  Expedited orders were NOT delayed,
although you may not receive a receipt in your box because we were
unable to print one at the time.  And, as I said, everything's up and
running again now. Sorry for any inconvenience that this may cause. 

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
