Date: Tue, 15 Jun 2004 14:33:42 -0700 (PDT)
From: s r <bugs1973(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, vwvanfulltimers
Subject: Windsheild wipers help, Long?

Hello everyone, I have been fighting a losing fight
with my windshield wipers. Here is the story, a couple
of months ago I got in my 78 westy and started her, as
soon as there was power to the system my wipers was
going at a constant slow speed. I thought I might have
bumped the switch, but no matter where I moved the
switch they would not stop. So I pulled the fuse and
they stopped. 

This is what I've tried, I first unplugged the wiper
switch, but they kept going and didn't stop. I believe
this would rule out the switch? Am I right or wrong? I
then was told the motor went bad and I needed to
replace it. So I went and bought a used motor. I
plugged the motor in before I was about to tear the
dash apart. This other motor does the same thing, it
just goes and goes. I then found and pulled out the
intermittent wiper relay. Now with this relay out my
wipers stop, but only will work in high, and when I
turn the switch off my wipers do not return. So
someone else told me to get an Ohm meter and check all
the wires on the wipers to see if any are shorting
out. So I pulled all the wiring out that has to do
with the wipers, I just borrowed a meter and if I did
everything correct all the wires check out OK. The
needle on the meter went to the same spot each time.

This is where I am stuck now, I don't know what else I
can do. Could it be the relay? but wouldn't my low and
high still work normal? I just wouldn't have the
delay. my 79 bus doesn't have the delay option so I
can't test it on it. I also haven't found a new relay
yet.

So if anyone has any other option or things to look
for PLEASE let me know.
Thank You!
Shawn R.
78 Westy
79 Bus
