Date: Thu, 25 Jan 2007 23:02:00 -0800
From: "Old Volks Home" <oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] read side marker light source?

I will offer general comment, without compromising my position at
VWG/Airhead:

I've been to several SEMA shows over the past 18 years, so I'm no stranger
to the "glut" of manufacturers out of the Far East, and much to my
experience and dismay they produce an array of questionable quality
products.  In the 7 years working with VWG to produce quality reproductions
of switches, molded rubber and plastic products, I cannot even begin to list
the number of Far Eastern manufacturers we have wasted so much time in
prototyping many of the products.  Sure, many pre-production samples look
very good at first, but when actual production and delivery happens, we have
been disappointed more times than I care to remember.  It took us over two
years to have them get the Bus 56-67 Interior Mirror to come out just
right.  A few other products really stand out as examples:

Beetle Horn Buttons with the Silver Wolfsburg Crest:  We have been through 5
different makers in 8 years and while initial production with each looked
very promising, subsequent production quality dipped so bad we had to crush
5000 buttons early last year and haven't had them back in stock while we
look for a 6th (and perhaps a 7th) maker.  The last batch had the Silver
bleeding through the black plastic and clear coat.

2.  Karmann Ghia Nose Base & Chrome Emblems.  We have been making these for
the past 10 years with the same manufacturer.  Even though clear and concise
wording on the Purchase Order specifically states High Polished Chrome on
the VW Emblem, the batch received in March last year came through in GOLD.
The second, replacement batch in June, came through with most gawd-awful
chrome job I've ever seen, so dark you could almost call it transparent
"grey" chrome (not to mention the flaking of it as well).  Were looking for
a new manufacturer.

3.  Turn Signal Switches for Beetles, Ghias & Type 3.  6 years ago we
embarked on an ambitious program to reproduce the Bug 60-61, Bug & Ghia
62-65, 66-67, Bug, Ghia & Type 3 68-69 and the 1971.  Prototypes and
production until about a year and a half ago came through with quality equal
or exceeding the SWF variety and we were quite pleased to offer them.  Since
late 2005, we have been receiving and regularly crushing up almost 3/4 of
the production because of production flaws and shoddy manufacturing.  So bad
that Scott got on a plane and flew over there to see what the heck was going
on.  Found out that many of the design prints and specification prints were
mislaid and couldn't be found because - guess what -  the plant manager and
chief designer decided to defect to the US while here on vacation, but no
one let us know, so we were in the dark.  We have since then moved all of
the tooling to another manufacturer, costing us more $$$$$$$$$$, time and
energy.  We were able to pause replacement production on the headlight
switches to switch them over to the new manufacturer to head off potential
problems we have hoped to have nipped in the bud before they ever left the
country.  We gave up on the 68-71 Bus Turn Signal switch (although the
prototype was just this close to being finished) because the new
manufacturer now wants quintuple what the other one did.

I don't even want to get into the Vanagon Air Cooled Air Intake/AFM Elbow
Boot because of delays, material costs are climbing and other "mysterious"
stalling.  'nuff said.

EMPI could very well be *now* making the lenses and perhaps the bulbholders
and being a long time friend of the family that owns EMPI, I wouldn't really
doubt if Dan Welden has gone out and knocked off these - every thing we have
sold to EMPI in quantities to start have been copied by him within 6 months
- and it's because they want to control their own costs and manufacturing.
BTW, these lenses, bulbholders and front bases we carry are manufactured in
India - there is no "Made In China" anywhere on these products we sell.  The
manufacturer is an OE supplier to Volkswagen GM and Ford in that part of the
world and is making inroads to supply to VW network elsewhere in the world.

But in most cases through the various contacts I've built upon the 29 years
I've been in VW biz, I'm able to trace the actual trail of manufacturing of
an item with a 99% degree of accuracy.

AFMs and ECUs are one thing, but this kinda stuff and more that VWG produces
is pretty low tech.  The Chinese, Indonesians, Indians and elsewhere there
are getting smart and are starting to demand the big bucks now.

Most US hobby manufacturers we've contacted in the past couple of years have
not been the most reliable either.  It kind of surprised us, especially in
plastic items, because we thought we could make an item at a reasonable
tooling cost and decent cost in production.  But in China, plastic and
molded rubber, the tooling costs were far below what they (the
US guys) could charge and production of 500 pieces of an item even much
lower than what they (the US guys) could ever get for it.  The problem with
lenses is that they (the US guys) didn't want the liability or incurr the
costs of getting DOT/SAE approval.  Heck, what cop looks at lenses for the
"SAE Number" these days?  Luckily, we haven't had much of any problem in
plastic and molded rubber (or EPDM or Buna or Neoprene) items, quality has
been excellent so far.  But as we have been introducing new items to the Far
East folks to make, we're seeing a rising cost in tooling four or five fold
(over what it was just 4 years ago) and initial/subsequent production
quantities in obscene amounts which give us pause.  We're in this for the
long haul, but we just can't sit on inventory for basically an antique,
obsolete vehicle (or vehicles).  The Far Easterners have gotten smart and
they want their pound of flesh NOW.

I've been watching your series of observations regarding various fuel
injection components with great interest.  I'm hoping a person such as
yourself will be able to "reinvent the wheel" in a manner of speaking to be
able to offer cost effective replacements for our declining number of
"Vintage VWs".  I look forward to trying out something better on my
Vanagon(s).
-- 
Jim Thompson
84 GL 1.9 "Gloria"
84 Westfalia 2.1 "Ole Putt"
73 K Ghia Coupe "Denise"
72 411 Station Wagon "Pug"
oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com
http://www.oldvolkshome.com
***********************************
