Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2012 00:40:13 -0700
From: Sami Dakhlia <sami.dakhlia(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type2.com" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: wheel offset and scrub radius

Hi,

Maybe somebody can help me think through this steering geometry problem.

'75 Westy. Many years ago, I replaced the stock 5.5x14 wheels (39mm
offset, I believe) with 6x15 Porsche Fuchs alloys (36mm offset). The
latter are fitted with 205/65/15 Continentals rated for D-load and 65
psi max pressure. (Calculated wheel+tire diameter is 648mm vs 659mm
stock, so only a 1.7% reduction). Because of the different bolt
pattern (5x112 vs 5 x130), I'm using steel adapters, 1/2" thick. This
should change the effective offset to about 36 - 12.7 = 23.3 mm. In
short, the new, wider tires stick out an extra 22.05 mm, while
backspacing is reduced by 9.35 mm. (math check: 22.05 - 9.35 = 12.7mm
= 1/2", the difference in wheel width.)

Result: along with rear sway bars and thicker, stronger front sway
bars, the bus is a model of stability. Passing 18-wheelers no longer
cause the bus to sail wildly across the road, I hold the steering
wheel with one hand, not two, handling in curves is fun and precise
and, at least downhill, can keep up with traffic on Topanga Canyon
road. The only problem is steering at a standstill (only), for
instance while parking. It's extremely difficult and cannot be good
for the steering box. Of course, the wider wheel (185 -> 205) has a
bigger contact patch, roughly 11% larger, but steering is 2 to 3 times
more difficult.

My original theory was that by moving the wheels further out, I
changed the scrub radius (or steering offset, Lenkrollradius in
German) from negative to close to zero. At zero, steering should
indeed be most difficult, since the wheels rotate on their contact
patch; with positive or negative scrub radius, the wheels actually
roll slightly, making steering easier.

Wikipedia, however, throws a curve ball into that thinking, claiming
that VW only introduced negative scrub radius in their 1972 Audi 80,
from which I take that the bus must have a positive one in stock
configuration. Since my modification should further increase scrub
radius, steering should be even easier, at least in theory. But
practice shows otherwise, so the theory is either wrong or incomplete.

Any light would be greatly appreciated :)

Sami ('75 Westy)
type2.com/dakhlia
