Date: Tue, 17 May 2005 14:57:30 -0700
From: "< Arnaud >" <turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Vintage Bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Doghouse additional oil cooler or not ?

By now many know that oil gets hot in my 1971 bus. Since much of the
bus driving happens in summer in the southwest US and Mexico the oil
cooling must be fool proof.

Here is what the gurus say in this domain

Bob Hoover says that stock doghouse oil cooler is good for engines up
to 2000cc (not specifying bus or lighter body)
http://web.archive.org/web/19980124002004/www.type2.com/sermons/liturgy/after
market_oil_coolers.html

Gene Berg says that doghouse is good for daily driver up to 200HP and
does not encourage external oil cooler (not specifying bus or lighter
body)
http://www.geneberg.com/article.php?ArticleID=238

Ron Van Ness needed a additional oil cooler on his newly rebuilt 1600
engine to keep oil temp under "230-2500 F on a long, sweltering summer
highway run " in the red and white 1971 westy
http://www.type2.com/rvanness/oilcool.htm

One thing the gurus agree upon is that the full flow oil filtration is
a good idea whatsoever. Dr. Tim disagrees and encouraged a newbie to
not "Californicate his motor". Tim says money is better invested in
frequent oil changes and Guiness with friends.
http://www.type2.com/archive/type2/039593.html

I'm a newbie, live in CA and leans towards Gene Berg Complete full
flow kit with (GB 248) and an new doghouse oil cooler with Hoover bit
and new oil presure control/relief springs/cylinders to start with
http://www.geneberg.com/product_info.php?products_id=446

If oil temps remain high after that the plumbing will be ready for an
additional external oil cooler. (Is that true of GB 258 ?)

This is an "A la Van Ness" setup. Opinions ? Warnings ?!?

- Arnaud
