Date: Wed, 18 May 2005 18:44:56 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Stroke a 1600 with stock carb and p&c? 

I have no immediate need for an engine, but would
like to think it through very well and get advise
from the experts well before I need it.  

My goal is reliability first and grab any "free"
power, torque over horsepower, that I can without
giving up reliability.  With that in mind, I'm
thinking of the following:

1.  I will maintain stock induction (34 carb) in
part for simplicity and in part due to possible
emissions requirements.  I guess if the emissions
guys are really on the ball, I'll have to go to a
30.  I expect to have to go to larger jets, of
course.  

2.  I will maintain stock P&C, because I'm not
big on the thinner walled cylinders.  It gets
really hot in southern Arizona.  I also like
being able to buy new heads and P&C off the shelf
if necessary, so that I can do roadside repairs
for valve problems, etc without ordering special
heads or P&C's.  Not many machine shops in
Mexico.  

3.  I will buy a counterweighted crank and
balance the engine completely.  

4.  Cam will be stock or very moderate, with
torque being the goal.  

However, I am a little interested in stroking the
engine.  I figure that I will not being doing any
roadside repairs that include cracking the case.
 
Is this a good idea?  What size crank?  I wonder
if the engine would be able to benefit from a
stroker given the small 34 carb.  However, I
notice that many small Jap truck and car engines
of the 70s and 80s had small carbs like this.  

Anyone build anything like this?  


Happy bussin'
Ray

Nemo, the Bus Captain
http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain
Not affiliated or associated with VW, VWOA, or VWAG.
