From: "Bart Daugherty" <badaugherty(-at-)msn.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Mon, 09 Sep 2002 18:30:35 -0700
Subject: Bus Hunt Report

I loaded up the wife and kid and went to see my family in Southwestern 
Oklahoma for a week or least sold it to the wife as going to see the family. 
  On the way down the sun didn't come up till we reached southern Missouri 
and I spotted truck pulling a couple of Beatles heading north.  Just before 
exit 96 I spotted a yellow and white split on the west side of the road 
hiding amongst several other cars, it had a full length rack and couldn't 
get the wife to turn around, said I'd catch it on the way back.  Saw several 
beetles in the distance off I-44 near Tulsa.  Got through the city (OKC for 
you non-okies) and all the way to my mom's house w/o sight any VW other than 
those new beetles everywhere, even saw one in Gracemont.  Those things are 
everywhere now.  Well I wasted no time and began searching for anything 
aircooled.  While driving through the country I spotted what appeared to be 
a couple of busses at the top of a hill, we backed the car up and pulled 
onto the property.... Score (or so I thought)2 bays a 76 and 78, got ahold 
of the owner and he offered the 76 up for 300.00 it was complete, but hadn't 
been ran since 98.  Told him I'd take it as soon as he found the title and 
went off in search of more treasures.  I followed every lead and looked in 
nearly every yard, I found a total of 12 beetles, 1 fastback, 1 squareback 
and those 2 buses.  Put the word out and heard rumors of an old single cab 
east of town, never found it.  I also heard of a large stash near Ponca City 
and another near Muskogee, but didn't make it this trip.  The 76 is still 
sitting where I found it the owner had a house fire and couldn't come up 
with the title before I left.  Gave him my info and said I would cover the 
lost title fee, we'll see on that one....  Never got to check out that split 
on the way back.  Drove through Effingham at about 7 am on Sunday, but 
didn't know where the real source was.  Got back at about 10 am, took a 
shower and headed to the Roann show.  I have pic's, but haven't posted them 
yet they are zipped and about 4.5 MB for those interested 
http://www.sundial-camper.com/images/roann-show.zip


Adrian and you other Okies be sure and vote on that bill to make those damn 
tolls go away!



Bart Daugherty

_________________________________________________________________
Join the world’s largest e-mail service with MSN Hotmail. 
http://www.hotmail.com

