Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2001 13:25:50 -0700 (PDT)
From: Schmitz Anthony <apbschmitz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: would you drive this?

Here's a long question: Recently drove my 1971 camper
bus from St. Paul across Wisconsin on a vacation with
my wife and two daughters. Around Green Bay the
generator light flickered on and I heard an alarming
clatter. Pulled over immediately to find that the
crankshaft pulley had torn off its bolt and was
swinging freely from the still-intact belt. Plus, the
engine was dripping (actually, this was more on the
order of a stream, about half the thickness of a
pencil) oil from an area near where the transmission
meets the engine block. (Although the oil level was
still about halfway between the marks on the
dipstick.) Up until that point the engine had been
running fine with enough power to hold at 55 or 60 up
some fairly substantial hills. I've recently adjusted
the valve lash and timing, put in new plugs,
distributor cap, points and condenser, and changed the
oil (refilling with the recommended 2.5 quarts), for
what that's worth. Aside from the usual few stray
drips, I had no oil leaks.
Well, the vacation had to go on, and so the bus ended
up being towed to a import auto repair shop in Green
Bay. They replaced the crankshaft pulley, guessing it
had suffered from metal fatigue. They also said that
upon examination they found that the manifold nuts had
worked themselves loose, and so they replaced these.
The oil leak they eventually diagnosed as the rear
main seal. Given the expense and work involved, they
didn't fix that. And frankly, given the expense and
work involved, I'd rather do it myself. Now I'm
looking at two options. Take the Greyhound bus to
Green Bay and drive my bus back here (about 300 miles)
to fix it, stopping often to check the oil and
presumably to add more. The guy who fixed the bus
seemed to think that this might work. Or borrow a
truck, rent an auto transporter from U-Haul, and tow
the bus back here rather than risking the drive. Boy,
would I love some informed opinion. Thanks.

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Get email alerts & NEW webcam video instant messaging with Yahoo! Messenger
http://im.yahoo.com
