From: "Stephanie Butler" <perample(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 19 Jan 2007 13:15:49 -0800
Subject: Sunroof drain blockage - resolved

Happy Friday! I 'think' (hope) I have solved the issue with the sunroof 
draining when it's wet outside.

The issue was - the drainage channels were blocked, and dripped in on the 
interior (almost right on my little one in the middle seat). I tore out the 
headliner - since it was going to get moldy, and investigated. I followed 
your suggestions (Thank you!) - got a wire clothing hanger, a 1/4" plumbing 
snake, even a grabber tool, Drano, and I tried CLR - just in case it was 
rust flakes causing the blockage.

There wasn't much blocking it at any time ... and frankly - the rain isn't 
something we have to worry about too much here. (So. Cal). So, I sewed up a 
big vinyl sheet to some magnetic tape, and basicaly made a barrier that 
tucked in to the sunroof opening near the front, but overlapped all the 
gutters. That worked most of the time because I drive mostly just around 
town. When I got on the freeway - that was a different story.

After fiddling with it today with the plumbing snake, I took off the 
connector hoses from the gutter to the drainage channel, stuck my pinky 
finger in there (it was dark and creepy) and discovered that the drainage 
channel has a 90 degree angle bend in it - and the connector hoses were cut 
straight across (of course) - which was the reason it blocked the channel!!! 
The blunt end of the hose blocked the water from draining fast enough.

I think the connectors are getting old, stiffening up a bit - so until I get 
replacements, I cut an angled wedge in the hose at the end where the hose 
was blocking it. I made sure the cut was not too long  - that would just let 
the water drip right in to the interior again.

I hosed down the bus to check my theory - really dousing it over the sunroof 
gutter - and after a few minutes, checked the inside. There were only a few 
drops in the floor.

You guys are right - the sunroof models are too vulnerable to rust. I know 
the new Eurovan has an option where you can get a moon-roof that's about the 
same size as the sunroof opening. Has anyone seen this in a type 2? I'd like 
to have the glass up there, with the whole opening sealed up, if possible. I 
know - it's not stock - but if this is going to be my forever car, and I 
have to continually deal with this issue over the years (if I'm lucky enough 
to keep it going) then why not do something that I'll get more enjoyment 
from, and it will protect the body a little more?

Stephanie
'79 Transporter - "Chaco" -- I need to re-name her - that's the p.o.'s name 
for her.

_________________________________________________________________
Turn searches into helpful donations. Make your search count. 
http://click4thecause.live.com/search/charity/default.aspx?source=hmemtagline_donation&FORM=WLMTAG
