Date: Tue, 9 Sep 1997 01:30:44 -0700
From: Charlie Ford <cford@mindspring.com>
To: type2@bigkitty.azaccess.com
Subject: My Illegal Smile


Over the course of this trip, and the journey that it has produced, I have
tried to share with you folks the good and the bad experiences.  Needless
to say, I have seen many ups and downs along the 15,000 or so miles I have
traveled.  many ore I am sure are coming as time passes toward the end of
the search.

Engine troubles, mixed with lack of working knowledge of VW¹s has created
its share of, for lack of a better term ²down² post for the group to trudge
through.  Probably most of the time wondering what favor I am going to ask
for next.  At the same time, the places I have visited, and the people I
have met have allowed me to embellish a bit on the positive as well.  I
think this is what most of you have enjoyed hearing about.  After all, you
speak to a lot of folks on this list, but few of you know what each other
look like, or what the personality of the other is.  So goes the life of a
type2 listee.

When I started this trip I intended to put up trip reports to all of you.
I felt as if I had to do this.  I honestly thought that it was sort of the
rule of thumb for being a participant on this list.  I also saw all of the
flaws in my writing style, and kind of figured that if anyone read them
they would quickly realize that this was not going to be to readable
information, therefore "why even try?".

I underestimated many of you, and all of a sudden found that a whole damn
bunch of you were actually sitting there reading what this silly 40 year
old has to say.  In many ways this put pressure on me.  One list member
sent me a message that I needed to use spellcheck before I post.  He did
not send the message in insult, he sent it constructive criticism.

I must say it caught me off guard, I had to think about it a little and
sort of re-think what I was doing.  Then after a few post, I started
getting messages from many of you praising what I was writing, and what I
was doing on this crazy-ass midlife ³Search for the Beginning of Wind².  I
was challenged once again, I have dissappointed quite a few people in my
life.  Not anymore than anyone else, but my share all the same. You have to
work at it you know to keep your numbers as low as possible in such
matters.  I was not going to let ya¹ll down.  I set it in my feeble mind to
BE A BETTER WRITER!

Some folks along the way gave me some material to read on the subject.  I
have tried to make my phrases more readable over the past few months, and
although I am still not up to par, I ma making progress.  Maybe by the
time I am finishing I will finally be able to write like my english
teacher always wanted me too.  But then maybe not.  ; )

I feel like I am going around my elbow to get too my hand
here.................: )  Let me eventually get to the point.


I have said all of the above too share my latest plight with you.  This
plight is not a terrible thing, it is actually more of an embarrassing
thing.  It is so embarrassing that I am sitting here in this chair writing
this line and thinking about how to explain such an embarrassing thing to
all of you fine upstanding VW owners around the country and world.

Don¹t worry I am not going to ask for help, I am just writing another trip
report so that I can keep you guys informed of the latest developments.
Hehehehehe

Tonight I got stopped by the Sherriff.  I have had some tailight problems
on the ³battery side².  Those of you with breadloafs know what I mean I
think.  The wiring is coroded and frayed and it just doesn't work well when
in that condition.  In the past few days it has been shorting out.  But the
fix just hasn¹t come to fruitition yet.  Procrastination is a good word for
it I think.  But once again, knowledge of the system would alos help a
little.  An electrician I am not.

Anyway....this cop sees the tailight out as I am coming back to Bill's from
a Machine shop I have been partiming at for the past few days.  I will
write more on that later.  I had driven all the way back to Bill Bowmans
home with my flashers running just for that reason.  I knew the tailight
was out, so I ran my flashers to make sure I was safe.  I have been working
night shift.

I was almost to Bill¹s house when the ³county mounty², and a nice guy he
was, decided it was my turn to make his aquaintance.  He flashed his
lights, I pulled on over and pulled out my wallet.  Either bribe him or
give him my liscence.  Since I din't have any money to speak of, I decided
on the latter.  Maybe my photo would impress him so damn much he would just
say "ahhh shucks man, go on to the house.  But it wasn't to be that way at
all.

He asked for my liscense, I handed them over in short order since they were
already in my hand.  I told him I knew my tail light was out.  He said
³yessir, that¹s why I stopped you².  I said OK.  He said OK, and proceeded
to walk back to his car to run my liscence.  he left instructions for me to
sit still.  'Why does that remind me of my Mother?'  Hmmmm.

When one is in this type position, late at night, sherriff, driving a semi
rusty beautiful breadloaf, on the road 1000 miles from home and cronies,
one starts to review ones criminal record.  Did I have one? I asked myself.

For the cop it is certainly as bad.  He is out here alone with a guy that
is twice his size, and he has to do his duty.  he doesn't know if I am
drunk, drugged, or pissed at my ole lady, he just knows that I look rough
as a cob.  All he has to go on is looks.  You must admit those folks have
it pretty tough.  Kinda like going to work in a shooting range these days.
Some cops are piss poor, but most are just working stiffs like the rest of
us.

He returned to my ³vehicle² and proceeded to tell me that my liscence were
SUSPENDED!.  Man I haven¹t had a ticket in years.  I would never have left
on this trip if I had a damn SUSPENDED liscense.  Geez...what a burr under
my saddle.  Sort of blew my ego right on out the door with that little
tidbit of info.  I asked him why?  He said he didn't know.  I asked him how
to find out.  He explained that I needed to call Georgia to find out.  I
left it at that.

He explained that he could arrest me and have my vehicle towed.  Whoa, I
explained...this is a VW, can we at least stay around until the tow guy
gets here so I can make sure he does it right.  He ask me how far it was to
where I am staying.  I explained sincerely that it was only a couple of
blocks.  He told me that he was going to write me a ticket and let me drive
on down to Bill¹s house.  All I would have to do is show up at the
appointed time of judication.  9:00 AM on the 29th of September.

Things could have been worse you know.  I could have been headed off too
three hots and a cot in the Crossbar Inn.  Complete with strip search suite
and whipping post for those that like that sort of thing.  I was happy as
the days is long.  Life was good, even though not as good as it could have
been.  ³Don¹t look a gift horse in the mouth².  I get to sleep in the
Mother again tonight.  Can¹t drive her but I can damn sure sleep in her.

We stood and talked VW for a minute, and then both went our own ways.  He
walked toward his tricked out dull brown official mobile, and I toward the
great and glorious Mothership.  I was good to know she was once again
evading the towing hook.  Of course we didn¹t part before offering thanks
and goodbye with a hearty firm handshake.  He was one of the good ones.
The kind that you work with if you¹re getting arrested or just ticketed.  I
have only been arrested once in my life and that was for speeding through a
school zone.  Yeah I know, it was everybit as interesting as it sounds, but
that is another story all together.

Jail is not really something I have ever wanted to be able to brag about.
Just the way I was raised I think.  I still respect the law, although not
always the people that are hired to enforce it.  I have always said that
the most dangerous person in America is a redneck with a badge, a gun, and
an official capacity.  Shoot you I a heartbeat and thinks he¹s a man after
he does it.  Pity, but it¹s the same ones we used to all pick on in high
school, there just getting back at us now.

As I drove away I thought sarcastically, ³man, this is just great, a ticket
and a suspended liscence².  ³Yeah just what I need.²  I guess I know what I
will be doing tomorrow.  By the time I get this settled I will have a
blister on my ear from talking on the phone.

The only thing I can think of is a ticket I got in Florida several years
ago.  I lost the ticket so I sent it to City Hall of the town I think it
was written in.  I just sort of left it alone and didn;t ever hear anything
back from, so I assumed it was all said and done.  I checked everything out
prior to leaving Georgia and all was fine with my legal side then.  I will
find out tomorrow I guess.

Anyway folks.  I just wanted share my most embarrassing moment to date with
all of you.  I have shared the rest so why not share the stress.  Life is
good, time will be better as it passes, and I am still able to smile.  I
guess thats the most important thing.  Maybe it just happened for some
reason.  I wonder what chain of events will come from this little spin?

Thanks for tolerating the rambling¹s.

Charlie Ford

PS:  I didn¹t spellcheck this one.  Felt rebellious.  ; )


"79" Transporter, dressed for the road
The Mothership

 The"Turning 40 Nostalgic VW Service Tour, and
Search for the Beginning of Wind".

http://www.armory.com/~y21cvb/charlie/charlie.html
"Wider still and wider.....shall thy bounds be set"

