From: "RD Robertson" <rdr(-at-)austin.rr.com>
To: "Old Volks Home" <oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 30 Nov 2006 15:38:46 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: getting rid of points - Roy

Jim,

I've never seen a Hall-effect electronic ignition fail because of dirt, dust,
grease, etc. I suppose that it's theoretically possible - just not at all
likely. Yes, very much sand with iron particles in it could definitely be a
problem, as the iron particles would stick to the magnet sleeve. But you'd
have to dump a teaspoon full in there. Because the Hall-effect units are
sealed in high-temp thermoplastic or epoxy, they're pretty much immune to
dirt, dust grease, grime, oil and moisture. And they operate in the dark - not
dependent on line-of-sight optics.

I'm not saying that the Crane unit is not good - I'm sure it works very well -
I wouldn't mind having one to play with, myself. If you want to spend the
money and time required, I'm sure it would make a great ignition system. But
with the Crane unit, you have to find a place to mount an external box and do
some additional wiring work. And the Crane unit costs about $100 more than the
Hot-Spark kit.

The Hall-effect units: Pertronix and Hot-Spark, have only a red wire and a
black wire that go to the positive and negative terminals on the coil,
respectively - simple, simple. No external box to mount. It all fits
underneath the distributor cap. You can use the stock distributor and, if you
want to for some reason, convert it back to points and condenser easily. You
can use a stock VW black Bosch coil, a Bosch Blue Coil (which isn't blue
anymore, but unpainted, I hear) or a high-voltage coil, as long as the
resistance in its primary circuit is at least 3.0 Ohms. Hmm.. I wonder if a
Hot-Spark unit could be used to trigger the Crane box?

Out of a couple of dozen or so Pertronix units, I saw one that failed, but it
was DOA, right out of the box. I saw several Compu-fire coils (the
"distributorless" variety - 4 coils on one board) fail. So far, I haven't had
a single Hot-Spark ignition fail.

I *do* think that we can agree on one thing, though: points suck. They're the
least reliable part of a vehicle (not including the driver). They go out of
adjustment within 1,500 miles or so and affect dwell and timing. Sure, it's
easy enough to readjust the points and then set the timing (yet again), but
why bother? I'd rather be driving my bus or working on something else.



Roy
'79 Transporter
(My late father bought it new in Jan. 1980)

  ----- Original Message -----
  From: Old Volks Home
  To: RD Robertson
  Cc: Courtney Hook ; type2 list
  Sent: Thursday, November 30, 2006 2:27 PM
  Subject: Re: [T2] Re: getting rid of points - Roy


  Roy -

  Then we must agree to disagree on this point, at least on the dusty, grimy
or oily part.  Dirt, which is not translucent, will of course block the
optical infared (I may have gone out on a limb here in the "dirt" dept).  But
with several grimy VWs and a very grimy 72 Toyota Pickup, all of which I used
the XR700 in the past 30+ years experienced no aberrations in on and off-road
use.  On the other hand, a sand rail I had a 79 Calif Hall unit installed on a
Type 4 1700 over 15 years ago gave me nothing problems, what with dust and
grime in the distributor (even with one of those aftermarket "dust boots"
attached).  I switched it to a Federal 093 distributor, installed an XR700 and
had no running problems afterward.

  But then again, it may have been just pure, dumb luck ;-)
  --
  Jim Thompson
  84 Westfalia 2.1 "Ole Putt"
  73 K Ghia Coupe "Denise"
  72 411 Station Wagon "Pug"
  oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com
  http://www.oldvolkshome.com
  **********************************
  On 11/30/06, RD Robertson <rdr(-at-)austin.rr.com> wrote:
    Ah, beg to differ here, but I think you have it backwards here.
Optically-triggered systems are fine unless the light source gets dusty,
dirty, oily or grimy - then the beam of light is affected negatively.
Hall-effect magnetic systems, on the other hand, are not affected by dust,
dirt, oil, grime and moisture.
    Roy
    '79 Transporter
      ----- Original Message -----
      From: Old Volks Home
      To: Courtney Hook
      Cc: RD Robertson ; type2 list
      Sent: Wednesday, November 29, 2006 11:03 PM
      Subject: Re: [T2] Re: getting rid of points - Roy


      Ah, but it is NOT a "Hall" Ignition System.  Allison/Crane XR700 units
have been an infared-opto-trigger beam style for the past 30+ years.  The beam
is broken by the slots in the rotor disc installed on the distributor shaft
just below the ignition rotor.  The nice thing about the opto-trigger beam is
that dust/dirt does not usually affect it, unlike cheeper Hall "magnetic"
style ignitions.

      But it is still classified as an Electronic Ignition System.
      --
      Jim Thompson
      84 Westfalia 2.1 "Ole Putt"
      73 K Ghia Coupe "Denise"
      72 411 Station Wagon "Pug"
      oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com
      http://www.oldvolkshome.com
      **********************************
      On 11/29/06, Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca > wrote:
        Roy, I use the Crane 700 system and it has a large electronic box with
a
        heatsink on it. What kind of ignition is this classified as?? Seems
like a
        lot of electronics for a Halls system?? Why bother with it rather than
just
        use your 39 dollar system??
        Courtney
