From: "Marcus Schaper" <mschaper(-at-)gvpt.umd.edu>
To: "'Joe Bartoli'" <joebartoli(-at-)sbcglobal.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 8 May 2005 16:54:45 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Need moral support on '69 Westy

Joe,

I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but I would start looking for a
replacement body. The front beam is almost a scheduled maintenance item and
the body rust involves a lot of work, but is doable. However, the rear axle
rust may be terminal. Take a mallet and strong old screwdriver and start
pounding on the rust in this area. If you can poke holes with a dull tool
(do not use a chisel for this reason) you have a problem ... Start with the
cracks visible in pic 42 and 43.

By the time the torsion bar tube rust out on the bottom, there is a good
chance that the frame rails are rusted badly on the inside, too. I have seen
restorations where these were replaced or fixed, but it is a LOT of work
because you have to remove the sheet metail in the gas tank area to gain
proper access to the frame rails.

FWIW, the German TUV does not allow patching in this area. If structural
rust is present in this area, it is considered a death sentence at the
bi-annual inspections.

Apart from the rear axle: by the time you have cut out all the rusty sheet
metal you will be surprised how little is left of your bus. Probably easier
to find a good body with a blown engine and swap you mechanicals and
interior over.

Marcus


Subject: Re: [T2] Need moral support on '69 Westy

The one spot that has me worried is the rear beam (or whatever it's called).
It has some bad looking rust on the driver's side where it is welded to the
arm.  A picture is worth a thousand words, so take a look at the link below
and go to pictures 42 and 43 on the third page.  I'm not sure what to make
of it.

http://joebartoli.tripod.com/VWCampmobile/index.html
