Date: Tue, 22 Apr 2008 22:51:09 -0700 (PDT)
From: steve blackham <homecraftproperties(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Problems on Samba

Fellow List Members

Ive been lurking on the side of the list for some years now,  my Bus
being stored for my later years.  But recently I have had an incident
which concerns me and I think will concern most other VW enthusiasts.

Two  weeks ago I ordered a fuel injection part off the Samba web site
from a person in Oregon.  As VW owners,  ancient VW owners, (the car
not personally) we have to depend on many avenues to acquire parts and
accessories for our charges.  I have used Samba many times to purchase
and sell items.  Up until now without incident.  This situation really
stings though.  I found several sources on the internet but this person
said he had a NOS (new, old stock) part for what I could purchase for
the price of a rebuilt one from Checker or Pellican.  I thought
Great!..  This part was to keep in reserve because parts for thirty
year old vehicles are getting hard to find.  I thought a new one for
the same price was the obvious decision.  I didnt see the red flags.  

I recently purchase another vehicle and brought it back from
California.  It had a new paint job but had lots of little kinks
mechanically that needed attention.  One of these was this part, so
when it came in the mail, I popped it in and did the pressure and
electrical checks on it.  The cold pressure checks were fine, as were
the electrical, but at operating temperature this unit operated 10
pound higher than it should have by factory specs (this would make the
car run extremely lean and not operate).  This part is used in two
other cars I own so I checked it out in each of these.  Sure enough,
10# s high.  I also tried the other cars units in the car in question
and both worked fine.  

Obviously, this part, even if it was still in the factory sealed bag
was defective.  I quickly emailed the guy I bought it from and asked
how he wanted to resolve this.  His answer was that this was NOS and
it was not his worry.  When did NOS start meaning Not Operating Sh*t?
 His ad on Samba listed it as new, though old stock.  Any of the
vehicles we are working with are 30 years old.  Obviously the parts
stock is old. 

This individual states that he is not a retailer and even retailers
wont replace a part that has been put in a car.  News to me.  Ive
never had a parts dealer refuse to replace a clearly defective part. 
This individual has hundreds of parts on Samba.  He is obviously using
Samba as a major income source.  Most of his parts are NOS.  He
obviously is getting these parts from auctions, and out of business
parts dealers.

As a VW enthusiast, I have parted out many vehicles through the years
and sold some of the parts through Samba, Craigs list and even this
list.  I have always stood behind the parts I have sold.  Even when I
know that they were abused but the buyer.  If there is not honor among
Bus owners what is coming to this world?

I guess the point I am trying to make is beware!.  And thinking about
it more, there should be some disclaimers required on Samba and other
sites.  If the condition of sale is Caveat emptor, it should be
clearly stated in the advertisement.  If new could mean new but broken
and you are tough out of luck, that should also be stated.  Samba has a
forum where you can see what other people are saying about a particular
seller, but there is nothing to prevent a scoundrel from packing the
deck.

I have learned my lesson, sadly!  No purchases online for over $50 or
what you can afford to lose. Always ask a lot of questions about what
shouldnt go wrong and how the seller will treat you after the sale. 
NOS evidently means nothing of substance and there is no honor among
thieves

Sorry to rant!!!

S. S. Blackham
Centerlessville, Utah

77 Westy
87 Weekender
91 Weekender
3.5 Rabbit Caddies
Many Jettas
Lots of Parts


      ____________________________________________________________________________________
Be a better friend, newshound, and 
know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile.  Try it now.  http://mobile.yahoo.com/;_ylt=Ahu06i62sR8HDtDypao8Wcj9tAcJ
