Date: Mon, 5 Jan 2004 15:21:16 -0800 (PST)
From: Karl von Salzen <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] post x-mas sobbin' horror story

I may have a pair of 74/75 only pumpkin orange door
panels. The 74/75 orange was different! The plaid is
orange, the door panels are orange, the vinyl on the
seats are orange, the carpets are orange, even he
headrests are orange!  I even have two pairs of those
orange headrests!! I have quite a few pieces of that
pumpkin orange plaid also. I may have the end pillows
also, not sure though.

The 76/77 chrome yellow Westies used an orange that
was more yellow and green. The end pillow [the cushion
on the pass end of the rear seat...76-79 used just
one, 74/75 used two because it was a full width bed]
was a goldenrod yellow. The door panels were green,
the seat vinyl was green, the headrests were green.
Anything else and that means it was changed from
original. 
The only seats that have inserts different than the
seat material were the 78/79 Champagne Edition buses.
All 74 to 79 Westies have plaid inserts with vinyl
sides and backs.

 
--- stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org> wrote:
 santa blew me off again this year so i appeal to the
 sweet love of the
 list. i am looking high in low gear, until otherwise
 stated, for two items
 for my orange 75 westfalia. orange front cab door
 panels, unhacked. and i'm
 in need of the front cab carpet.  your westy parts
 rig wants to trade
 orange secrets. trades/cash/live music.   - steve
