Date: Thu, 13 Sep 2001 08:42:33 -0700
From: "Kyle" <cal4570(-at-)qwest.net>
To: "RACHEL HOLLIS" <surlygirl(-at-)email.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] undercover cops at jerome

There have been cops at the Jerome event for years, up till 2 years ago,
uniformed. The uniformed off-duty Jerome cops got Don worked up a few years
back and he later got them removed from the police force. They drove their
patrol car onto the private areas of the mine without his permission and
busted some kids smoking weed. He didn't like them trespassing any more than
the smokers. End of story. The  club always has security on site, but it is
not for the purposes of walking around smelling for weed. It is for the
folks that can't behave in polite society, whether they be smoking or not.
Sure, if someone is blatantly selling, shooting off fireworks, climbing the
slag piles, or otherwise providing a bad example for the children present,
an off-duty cop is probably going to bust them, but they are just there in
the event of trouble. The club and its' officers have to demonstrate some
level of concern for the safety of everyone attending. Darwin was right, and
there are always people who think any large gathering is a perfect
opportunity to show everyone how stupid they can be. The club does not
condone any illegal activity, be it minor drinking, pot smoking or injecting
freeze dried monkey buttholes into your eyelids. By the same token, the Club
isn't trying to be anyone's mommy. We have plenty to keep us busy. This is
not a Rainbow Family Gathering, or a daredevil convention. As long as
everyone acts like they got some smarts, the security people will stand on
the hill and be bored half to death like they have most years. If they
haven't bothered you in the past, they shouldn't bother you now because it
is no different.

Kyle
57 Singlecab
59 Singlecab
67 Westfailure
61 Kombi
57 Oval

