Date: Fri, 23 Jan 2004 09:03:36 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>, "'type2(-at-)type2.com'"
Subject: Re: [T2] fire talk

I theorize this: the gas tank is above the engine. Any ruptures in the 
lines and the whole tank empties out. If moving it empties on the hot engine...

Any "normal" car has the tank behind and below the engine. Any leaks spray 
out under the car with only the back bumper or the rear axle to wetted with 
fuel. Also I don't think most modern cars will spill the tank of the fuel 
if the line if ruptured since the lines come out of the top of the tank.

Neglect. Most of our beloved VW's have been owned by folks who either did 
not do their own work or did no repair work at all and just drove their 
VW's into the ground. Either way there seems to have been alot of 
least-cost-to-repair people out there. Rube Goldberg repairs, parts that 
don't directly contribute to the engine running being left off (tin for 
example), and alot of backyard repairs by people who probably couldn't 
spell their name.

If I was going to redesign the bus system it would be based around an 
electric fuel pump. It would either include a loop of fuel line that goes 
up into the elephant ear and then to the engine to stop gravity fed leaks 
or an in-tank pump with fuel takeoffs on top.

As I am not going to totally redesign my bus system, I am either going to 
add a normally closed solenoid valve, a cable operate ball-valve, or a 
motorcycle vacuum controlled valve (GREAT idea) or 2 combination of the two.

I am really enjoying this discussion. Learning lots.

Chris


>OK, call me stupid, but what causes a bus to catch on fire?  It seems to
>always involve a ruptured or loose gas line, but gas needs something to
>ignite it.  Are these fires being caused by sparks?  What surface
>temperature must something be at to ignite gasoline without a spark?  I'm
>just trying to understand.
