Date: Wed, 12 Jan 2005 18:02:24 -0800 (PST)
From: David Burton <david_a_burton(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Optima batteries for starting

Hi Mark & List,

I'm running a Yellow Top Optima in my '71 Westy, I got
it because I thought it'd be good for camping, and I'd
had one too many "accidents" with spilling acid from
lugging numerous old style batteries in and out to
carry 'em into the house to recharge - I park on the
street (if you don't recall my recent posts!) If I
didn't drive my bus for a few days it'd be much harder
to start in cold weather, even though I have the 2nd
"direct" solenoid setup. I have an alternator
conversion in my bus.

I was originally planning to get another Optima, a Red
Top, and run 2 batteries, with Hella's relay kit I'd
seen, but one Yellow Top has been great, it has
massive power reserves. Plus, I could fish it in and
out without ever risking a spill, but it's been in
there since May when I got it, no need to pull it to
recharge, it keeps a charge really well!!

So, they cost top dollar, but are all these things
you'll have to consider, if the benefits are worth it
to you..

Is anyone running a Red and a Yellow, with the relay
(or isolator) as I'd be interested if they can be
mixed?? Red for starting, and Yellow for camping??

FYI, I bought my Yellow locally, but you can get these
shipped, so it's worth searching for a good deal on
line..

Dave Burton
'71 Rustfalia
