Date: Thu, 13 Jan 2005 09:53:14 -0800 (PST)
From: David Burton <david_a_burton(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>, Stevie Havoc
Subject: Re: [T2] Choice of Power Inverters?

Chris, Steve, List,

I knew there were others on this list like me!! :-)

Thanks for the advice, and Chris - I'd read your
previous posts about your inverter (including using it
to power a sawz-all in the woods!!) but what brand is
it??

I could get a 12v car/truck adapter to power my
laptop, but that one piece is $50-60 alone, so I
figured an inverter was the way to go - then if needed
just use regular power supplies & chargers I already
have for my PDA, laptop, printer etc..

I take both of your points about buying quality, I
certainly don't want to damage my stuff, or have a
cheap inverter that burns up!!

I take your point (Chris) about using 12v accessories
(to make hot drinks) but I was actually thinking about
getting one of those tiny microwaves to make tea and
soup, it'd also be great for meals while camping if a
fire isn't allowed!! I only ever used a hibachi, never
got around to buying a coleman stove..

After travelling cross-country for two months in 1991
and sleeping in my bus every night, I had the crazy
idea I'd live in my bus, as I stayed with friends
after my trip.. I considered it but never did it..
There are a couple of books (!!) on the subject, but
has anyone on the list actually kitted out their bus
well enough so that they could live (relatively)
comfortably in it?? I'm talking about if you still
kept a regular job, worked out and shaved/showered at
the gym every day, were still being social etc, so not
living like a stinky hermit..

Sorry about all the "unusual" questions!! 

Thanks,
Dave Burton
'71 Rustfalia
