Date: Sat, 23 Jul 2005 15:06:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Fan belt issues

1600 dual port with alternator.  I just lost a
fan pulley, one of the black ones (aluminum? said
"USA" on it and was wrapped as bugpack).  I have
also had intermittent noise from the fan (I
think) that is made worse with any of the newer
style ribbed belts.   

I had just changed the belt and noticed a
horrible noise while driving down a hill.  Before
I got to the bottom, I heard a clunk that I
thought was the belt.  It ended up being not just
the belt but the entire inner part of the pulley
that ripped away from the hub.  

Anyway, I have returned to the stock pulley, and
it seems more quiet than it use to (before the
pulley gave way).  However, I think the
alternator bearing is fried.  It is very noisy,
especially at around 3500 rpm.  

I also lost one of the alternator straps shortly
after putting the alternator/stand/etc. on.  It
was one of the cheapo chromey crappy things, so I
didn't think much of it.  

I also notice that all the alternator belts(of
any brand including continental) are way too long
and require none or only one shim.  As a result,
the belt rides very high.  It seems to me this
should make my fan run too slow, right?  

I cannot figure out what my fan/pulley issues
are.  I guess I'm going to have to take the whole
thing off again and double check everything.  Any
ideas?  What should I look for?

Happy bussin'
Ray

Nemo, the Bus Captain
http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain
Not affiliated or associated with VW, VWOA, or VWAG.
