Date: Sat, 19 May 2007 10:34:51 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: May 18 Mt St Helens Anniv > Bus Killer!

May 18 1980. About the top half of Mount Saint Helens
blew off and, combined with the ash from within,
scattered herself through the atmosphere. As much as
several inches of ash piled up in Eastern Washington.
I was there and it was an experience to never forget,
but that is a Friday post and so I will direct this
toward bus content!

It was actually about eleven years later when I bought
my bus. It appeared to be in excellent condition but
was "up in miles" and would soon require a complete
engine rebuild. I knew little about VW's at the time
and found what I felt to be an "excellent" mechanic to
do the rebuild. I remember he asked me several times
what all that stuff caked on the case was - he simply
could not get it all off. It was kinda like a super
hard cement.

Later still I was in a position to do some body work
and I was amazed at how much grey "dust" had
accumulated between the body layers. Places where the
body is doubled were rusting through. I still didn't
make the connection to the Mountain.

What finally connected all the dots for me was when I
removed the firewall and found that the entire gastank
enclosure area was packed with that same grey dust.
Now I recognized it, as in driving my BMX racing team
through E. Washington that fateful morning, we
accumulated several inches of the stuff in the stepvan
we were driving in.

Now all the pieces started to fit together and I knew
I had made a very bad purchase. This bus had been in
the Spokane area in May of 1980, and although new at
the time, it had its death warrant signed that very
day, May 18. As long as it "lived" in Eastern
Washington, the ash in the body parts wasn't a total
loss, cuz it's so dry over there. When I purchased it
and made its new home on the Coast (I'm three hours
from the Pacific, but to E.WA'ers everything west of
the Cascade summit is "The Coast") year 'round
moisture was introduced to that mass of ash. Ash is
not necessarily corrosive in itself (I don't know what
the ph level of this ash was) but it is extremely
abrasive. Anywhere it was trapped in machinery, it
abraded the bearing surfaces away. Anywhere it was in
bodywork, it abraded away any rust preventative that
was on the metal.

Here I am, 27 years later, trying to keep this mass of
rusted parts together enough to make it until I can
get the replacement body in shape to make the switch.
Sadly it has gotten to the point where I need to work
on the first one constantly just in order to keep
going. I was happy to find that Krylon has a paint
color that matches one of the colors of my bus close
enough that I can do quickie hardware-cloth and
plastic filler patches and blend them in as to be
undetectable to all but the seasoned body repair
expert (where I work, there are car body repair shops
all around me! - at least 5 of 'em within a block!)

I never gave a thought to the possibility of ash
damage when I bought the bus, even though the eruption
made a major impact on my life back in the day. I sure
feel for the people who are buying cars that were in
the Katrina mess. Imagine having allergies only when
driving your "new" car and never quite making the
connection. Who knows what else may be lurking in
there besides mold? The fellow who has for years done
my sheetmetal work for me both for my various bus
projects and for the sign shop recently died from
flesh-eating bacteria he picked up while on a golfing
vacation. We just can't assume anything anymore,
except maybe to assume the worst-case scenario and
plan accordingly.
-BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.


       
____________________________________________________________________________________Yahoo! oneSearch: Finally, mobile search 
that gives answers, not web links. 
http://mobile.yahoo.com/mobileweb/onesearch?refer=1ONXIC
