Date: Sun, 17 Jun 2007 11:38:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Solving the Busaru's Problems

One step at a time! It's got four years of run time
and it has been marvelous. No problems... except for a
few relatively minor details. Ultimately, it wore out.
The Subey had 150,000 miles on it when I put it in. I
could easily have added anothe 100,000 but who's
counting?

When I was engineering the original install, the
throttle body was invading the space of the gas tank.
I turned the manifold around and then needed to flip
the alternator upside down which is a perfect fix
except that the air bypass valve was in the way.
People warned me that the Subey brain would never
allow me to remove the unit, but they were wrong.

In cold weather, I missed the fast idle, and I got to
thinking about when I want to use the microwave, it
would be nice to maybe short out the wire for the air
conditioning compressor to make the computer think it
needs to bump the idle speed way up... Then ideas of
remote mounted air bypass valves emerged.

Cooling system: The front mounted radiator disguised
as a spare tire was a hit. It works great. It works
too great at times. The plumbing was way more
complicated than it needed to be. What I think I've
learned is that I need to straighten the pipes and
simplify the system thereby minimizing up-and-down
routing where air pockets can develop. Part of the
proiblem was the plumbing to heat the throttle body
and the air bypass valve. That circuit also
complicated the heater circuit which is the thermostat
bypass.

Now that I am assembling a new power unit, I decided
to simplify - simplify - simplify. I have eliminated
the air bypass valve - all it does is raise idle speed
when cold and when told to by the ECU. I have
eliminated the heating circuit and the piping from the
heater circuit associated with it. That alone has
eliminated at leas a dozen spots for air pockets to
form. This will allow me to run straight pipes for the
heater circuit and make all the hoses easily
accessible for servicing.

The radiator "hoses" - piping to the front, will be
lowered and flattened instead of going over the rear
torsion tube. They will now come in closer to the
transaxle and remain level all the way to the front,
but below the frame X-members.

The idle speed issue was solved last night. I have a
power mirror motor that I will mount below the exposed
throttle cable between the spool that it attaches to
the TB on and the adjuster where the cbale sheath
ends. The stock throttle body has two spools - one for
throttle cable and one for cruise control. I will put
a dummy cable on the CC spool and end it at the
adjuster bracket a few inches away. I will attach the
mirror motor to that cable such that it will pull down
on the cable to raise idle speed and loosen its pull
to return to normal idle. I can operate this at will
from the drivers seat and perhaps a second control at
the microwave oven! This will allow me to operate at
any chosen fast idle speed at any time. I assume I
will be able to raise it to 3,000+ if I ever had
reason to.

The adjustment is steady and secure. When the motor is
powered off, it stays at that setting until powered on
to change. Wiring is simple as there are two wires for
the unit that will be attached to power window
switches to switch the polarity for up vs. down.

I have been planning all sorts of schemes including
the simplest - a hand throttle cable like the old time
cars and trucks had, to stepper motors and linear
actuators. This is by far the simplest scheme I have
come up with.  A photo is posted at the end of my
Busaru album - see my sig for link. I will post more
when installation is complete. - BaH




-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.


 
____________________________________________________________________________________
We won't tell. Get more on shows you hate to love 
(and love to hate): Yahoo! TV's Guilty Pleasures list.
http://tv.yahoo.com/collections/265 
