Date: Tue, 28 Aug 2007 13:55:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: s r <bugs1973(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, wetwesties <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Engine won't turn all the way

Hello Lists, I need help. First off this engine is a
good running motor that I pulled out of a running 78
bus. It is a 2.0l F/I with Hydralic lifters.

Two months ago I pulled it out of the bus to put it in
my 75 Riviera. After pulling the motor I put it on an
engine stand and went on vacation, once I got back I
took the fan shroud off to replace a broken oil fill
tube. then put everything back together. Then I
drained the oil. a couple of days ago I removed the
flywheel to replace the main seal. Yesterday I put the
new seal in. Today I put the flywheel, and a new
clutch assembly on the motor. Just filled the motor
with oil.

Now getting the motor ready to go into the bus, I
noticed that the motor will not turn all the way
around. I can turn it by hand until about 15 degrees
BTDC, I can turn the motor backwards and it still
won't come close to turning all the way around. I have
put a wrench on the alternator pulley and still cannot
get it to turn all the way over. I have pulled the
plugs and sprayed some lube down the holes, and have
pulled the valve covers off and everything looks as it
should.

What am I missing, again this motor was running good
before I pulled it.

Please help, I was hoping to have this motor in today.
Thanks Shawn

Shawn Reed
  Pocatello, Id
   
   http://www.worldisround.com/articles/280838/index.html?e
