From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "'Cal Grant'" <cjay(-at-)well.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 26 May 2003 09:09:29 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] It Was 30 Years Ago Today...

Definitely a day for celebration on this day of remembrance.

David

Cal wrote:

Thirty years ago today, on 26 May 1973, I bought my 67 deluxe. I didn't
realize at the time that I was buying an institution! And I never
thought
once about how long I'd own it back then - it just stayed around, taking
me where I needed to go.

I wasn't a mechanic, but I needed an escape pod to explore the world
outside of Long Island, NY, at my ripe age of (then) 24. I needed
something that I'd have a *chance* of being able to work on myself.
There
were three vans to choose from back in 1973 - Ford Econoline, Dodge Van,
and the VW Microbus. About the time I needed to make my choice, someone
handed me a copy of the 'Idiot Manual' by John Muir. I read it like a
novel, and made my choice to buy a bus. I've never regretted it. The day
my friend drove me out to see this bus and buy it was also the day I
learned how to drive a manual transmission.

It was six years old when I bought it, and I am the third owner. I won't
be the last, probably, but it's gonna be with me til *my* end! The
middle owner, a kid my age, drove it back from Colorado where he'd
bought
it, kept it parked for six months, then put it up for sale. I was the
first one to repond to his advert. The price - $585. It was listed for
$600, but he dropped it because it was missing the side door key. Turned
out, he was wrong. Of the three original VW keys he handed me, I later
found that two were ignition/doors/rear-hatch, and one was the side
door.
So I got a bargain as well! ;-)

We've been good friends all these years, and the bus has taught me many
things, not all of them mechanical. Patience, attention, and
consideration, and perserverence against all odds have been some of the
lessons I've learned from this bus.

I just washed and waxed it yesterday; it's held up well since the
two-year-long restoration back in 94-95. Thirty years - yikes!

cal
67 deluxe, 30 years
http://www.well.com/user/cjay/pages/bus.html
