From: "Sean Fulkerson" <sean_fulkerson(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Mon, 18 Mar 2002 20:15:55 -0500
Subject: RE: living in my bus

I was going to keep my mouth shut, but I can't help it....

I've been homeless. I've lived in my bus. I've caught tons of crap from 
people over being homeless and living in my bus. Did I lose sleep over their 
distaste with my living conditions? No. Did I lose sleep over *MY OWN* 
distaste with my living conditions -- hell yeah.

Camping in a bus is fun. Living in one is a different story.

Yeah, they're practical -- lots of room, good ventilation, very mobile -- 
but I'll take a house/apartment/shed over living in my bus any day.

BUT---- If you have no choice (and I've been there), a bus is a hell of a 
lot better than a cardboard box (even though they have nearly identical 
aerodynamic properties). If you've got no other options, pack up some extra 
blankets, maybe invest in a cheap propane camp heater, get a copy of 
"Manifold Destiny" (a great guid to cooking on a hot engine), pick up some 
groceries and move into your bus.

I've done it. It wasn't easy. At times, it absolutely sucked. But today, 
aside from being alive... I now have a great job, a comfortable home, a 
loving significant other, and a baby girl on the way -- not to mention 
high-speed internet access ;)

A few tips (in addition to those mentioned earlier)....

1. Bureau of Land Management:  You can camp indefinitely on any BLM site 
(just clean up your trash). I live in an old steel town, and believe it or 
not, there's a tract of BLM land right in the middle of the city. And unlike 
many city/county/state owned areas you can stay after dark, have a cooking 
fire, and you're free to drink alcoholic beverages openly as long as you 
(and your companions) are old enough.

2. Milk Jugs / Pop Bottles:  If you want to stay clean, start hoarding empty 
milk jugs and 2-litre pop bottles. As long as you're not going to *drink* 
the water, you can fill up the aforementioned jugs/bottles with 
river/creek/pond water for bathing purposes. For a "hot" sponge bath, fill a 
metal cooking pot with water and set it on the exhaust manifold for about an 
hour.

3. Never park/live anywhere you wouldn't put down "permanent" roots:  Take 
the jokes about how West Virginia got settled seriously. Think about it... 
bus breaks down, funds are low... Never park/live too far away from people 
(in general) or a great source for bus parts (imperative).

I could probably come up with a few more, but I don't want to take away all 
the "adventure" for you. If you've got to do this, please be safe -- watch 
where you park (and make sure *you're* watched!). If you catch flak for 
this, so what. Just do what you gotta do. And above all else, "Good luck!"


Sean,
1970 Microbus (a work in progress / daily driver)

_________________________________________________________________
MSN Photos is the easiest way to share and print your photos: 
http://photos.msn.com/support/worldwide.aspx

