From: "David Maurio" <david.maurio(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 16 Jun 2002 16:34:40 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Electrical woes... still

Ok, I called Dave Schwartz today... he was kind enough to send his phone
number along with his suggestions...  He walked me through some stuff, and
gave me really good advice...  This is where I'm at now...

Battery is still draining.

The 2nd battery was totally disconnected, and the pos and ground cables from
the primary battery were also replaced.

The dual battery switch, the aftermarket battery charger under the rear
seat, and the busted wiper delay switch that was screwed into the dash were
all removed.

The voltage regulator, clutch and alternator were all replaced... (clutch
wasn't related, but it was bad, alternator was replaced twice, thinking this
may be the problem, but to no avail...

At Dave Schwartz's suggestion I started with a freshly charged battery... (I
went to the shop and traded in mine for another brand new one (no charge,
warranty.)  Hooked it up, bus started right up.  I ran some wire up from the
battery to the front of the bus (one wire on pos, one on neg terms. of
battery) and hooked the multimeter up to them.  Set it on 20v DC and watched
it drain.  It's draining about .01 every 30-60 seconds.  Pulled each fuse
out one by one and watched it continue to drain... then one by one I
disconnected the lead running from the pos battery term to the strip under
my back seat, ( http://members.bellatlantic.net/~vze3t2qs/bus/busstrip.jpg )
disconnected all electrical going to the BN4,  removed the inline fuse in
the engine compartment, (seen here
http://members.bellatlantic.net/~vze3t2qs/bus/engine006.jpg )   unplugged
each wire from the coil, (
http://members.bellatlantic.net/~vze3t2qs/bus/engine006.jpg )  unplugged
each wire from this thing, (
http://members.bellatlantic.net/~vze3t2qs/bus/engine009.jpg ) (VW part
number 141 951 253B, I searched for that part number at the Bus Depot
website, it comes up with "Fuel Pump Relay, 83-91 Vanagon, Beetle & Ghia"
odd to be in my bus since my bus is a 76 type 2...) disconnected the rear
window defroster and it still continued to drain after each one...

Then I took the wire that goes from the pos battery terminal to here (
http://members.bellatlantic.net/~vze3t2qs/bus/cheap.jpg ) (which was how I
connected all the wires after I removed the battery selector switch, still
waiting for my dual battery relay and rest of that order to come in from the
Bus Depot) and removed them one by one.  One of the wires goes to that strip
under my back seat, I took that off and the drain didn't go away, one of
them is a thin black wire that runs from the lower right side of the
firewall up along the firewall right above the engine seal to the 2 relay's
on the upper left side of the firewall, removed that and the drain didn't go
away, the last wire attached there is a thick black wire that goes out
through the lower right side (facing the front of the bus) of the firewall,
(I believe to the starter, etc) when I removed the last wire, of course the
drain went away... I hooked all the wires back up except that thick black
one and no drain...

So that's where I am now... process of elimination...  any suggestions as to
how to proceed?

Thanks to everyone for all their suggestions... at least I'm narrowing it
down and I'm learning a ton in the process...

if at first you don't succeed...
David




