Date: Thu, 18 Apr 2002 20:56:49 -0700 (PDT)
From: Blake Haralson <nakedclimber(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Type 2.com Type 2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: compression test results - need help

Hi everyone,
I hope everyone on their way to EB is safe and having
a good time.
A few months ago, I bought a 75 westy hard top with a
few quirks here and there with the dist that were
worked out with the help of Karl (list) and  Joe at BB
- thanks guys. When I first set the valves, everything
was fine except the #2 intake was tight. I adjusted it
accordingly and all was well until I went to set the
valves the next time. Again, #2 intake was tight only
after a few hundred miles. Tonight I did a compression
check with the following results: #1=130, #2=60,
#3=120, #4=120. The vehicle has approx. 160k miles on
it and the PO indicated that the engine had been
rebuilt once (I did the math and I figure I am lucky
everything is as good as it is). I am not too
mechanically inclined, but I always seek more
experience. I have never pulled an engine, but I hope
to some day and in the process, become more
independant and confident with my abilities. My
questions are:
1. With the info I have, what is hapening in my #2
cyl.
2. Is there anyone in the Riverside Cal. area that can
help guide me through the required repairs.
3. If no to question 2, what should I expect to
encounter with my mechanic with regards to the work
that needs to be done and the potential cost I should
expect.
If I try to pull the engine myself and for any reason,
I cannot finish and need to bring the "basket case" to
a mechanic, I will have a big hole to dig myself out
of with my wife. I really would appreciate any help
anyone can offer.
Blake
75 westy
Riverside, CA,

If you can't laugh at yourself, we'll do it for you.

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Tax Center - online filing with TurboTax
http://taxes.yahoo.com/
