From: "cmeanley" <cmeanley(-at-)pacificcoast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Daniel Curran" <daniel_curran(-at-)tys.on.ca>
Date: Fri, 16 Aug 2002 21:53:33 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] bringing a vehicle from the US into Canada

Having victimized Canadian customs four times in two years, I can attest
that it often depends on the day,which crossing, and officer on duty. To
make your life simple be sure to have a title, a completely filled out bill
of sale and if you bought it off ebarf a copy of the auction is a good idea,
and lately they seem to be trying to enforce a US law that requires you
clear the export with US customs first. If the vehicle is more than 15 years
old, customs is more concerned with collecting duty than anything else.
Remember that your max exclusion is $700 cdn on I think a 5+ days stay,
remember that they will convert us dollars to canadian and charge
accordingly.If you make up a bill of sale thats too low, the inspector might
get suspicious and require more documentation, (ask me how I know ;-) ) So
if your trying to avoid duty, make sure to either have a basis in reality,
or else a real good story. Motorcycles are fairly easy as except for 2
strokes, theres not much to deal with emissions, in fact its usually a
import of the opposite direction. I've never had a real problem with any of
the older stuff, (newest was a 77 bus) but my Astro did require a letter of
recall from the mfg and to pass federal and provincial inspection(BC worst
in the nation) after which I was issued a Canadian approved sticker. So to
answer your original question, yes you could really just drive up with your
paperwork.
Chuck
Van Is

