Date: Fri, 27 Jun 2003 07:59:59 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Friday Content: "Bus Elves"

Hi Volks,

Apologies to those who have read this story on other lists. I held it 
back for a Friday post on this list.

As some of you might know, I  found a burned valve on "Bob the Tomato" 
a few weeks ago. Instead of repairing its 1.8L engine I elected to 
freshen up a spare 2L, and spend a few bucks towards a bigger bang.

Unfortunately the 2L cylinder heads didn't get back from the machine 
shop in time to re-assemble the engine before I had to go to Boston 
last week on business. I spent last Saturday straightening up the 
garage and getting things together so that when I did get back from 
Boston (on a flight arriving midnight Friday) I would be ready to go 
camp in a (gasp) Ford at the non-organized Buses By The Falls event and 
then go to the JitterBug on Sunday. It was disappointing, but I figured 
it was just one of those things that couldn't be helped.

My week in Boston was pretty quiet. I didn't see a single bay-window 
all week. I did manage to pick up the VW Bus book by William Burt*.  It 
was at Barnes & Noble, and I recognized many of our EveryBus friends in 
it. It reminded me I ought to go see Mark Dearing, since I was only 15 
miles from Salem... So I googled his phone number and had him on the 
line when I realized that he was in Salem VA, not Salem MA. Oops. Mark 
told me there's a Salem in 48 of the states, and who am I to argue?

On Mark's suggestion I went to Wayland MA to visit "Boston Bob" Donalds 
instead. There wasn't a lot to see --  he had moved into the new shop 
only 2 days previous and most of the gear was still crated up. However, 
I soon discovered that he's a very nice guy and extremely knowledgeable 
about type4 and wasserboxer engines. Still no baywindow sightings, but 
at least he had an aircooled vanagon there. I was quite pleased he was 
able to make time to see me on short notice, and learned a lot of neat 
facts in the short time we were together.

On Friday at Logan airport while awaiting my flight I called home to 
talk to my wife and make sure that everything was ready at home for the 
family to go camping the next day. She told me there was a surprise in 
the driveway for me.... She said it was red and white and very nearly 
running.

It seems that in my absence the legendary "Bus Elves" had come to visit 
my garage several nights that week to install a pair of fresh heads on 
the 1.8L engine and bolt it back up into the bus. I was floored. The 
people involved were all members of a local VW-Bus list I belong to, 
and most have been members of this list as well at one time or another. 
One of them called my Dad, and he arranged the purchase of a new pair 
of heads, which was appropriate since this engine is going into his 75 
westy once I get the 2L done for mine. Colleen made sure they had 
sufficient beer, and people kept coming back until it was done. I'm 
sitting there at Logan's terminal C on the phone, and I just didn't 
know what to say. I had spoken to my Dad and Colleen several times and 
emailed some folks once or twice, and no-one said anything about my bus.

All that was left for me to do was to hook up the vacuum and electrical 
bits on the carbs and get the front tin and engine seal on. By noon on 
Saturday I had it up and running and the trailer hitch was the last 
detail to do. By 1:30 we were on our way to Buses By the Falls, with 
the westrailer following faithfully behind.

The bus ran very well, if a little loudly. Since the team working on my 
bus was covertly operating under internet radio-silence, they didn't 
know where I had put all of the parts when I tore the motor down, and 
couldn't call to ask without blowing the surprise. When my Dad 
installed the heater boxes on Friday night, he inadvertently installed 
a broken muffler I had removed three weeks ago and not discarded yet. 
But I figured it could stay on there for one more trip, and it did OK. 
Since I hope to have the 2L done soon I will probably just leave the 
busted muffler on the 1.8 for the time being.

The Jitterbug had its usual great weather and was just as fun as ever. 
I chatted up a lot of people about Buses Of The Corn and it looks like 
we're going to have a pretty good turnout. The plans for BOTC continue 
to evolve and I'm sure I'll have more details soon.

So once again I would like to thank all the people who helped make this 
great weekend possible. Adam, Brent, Collie, Dad, Dennis, Martin, Scott 
and Travis. -- Thanks guys. Bus people are a truly marvelous bunch.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

*The ISBN is 0-7603-1319-9 if you want to order a copy from Amazon or 
Chapters.


1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**
1977 Sunroof Automatic
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia

#############################
Buses Of the Corn is August 8th - 10th 2003
visit http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn
#############################
