Date: Fri, 27 Jun 2003 06:23:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Full Moon Bus club
Subject: Late Bay front beams, what's the deal with those?!?!

Hey Y'all,
I found a 78 bus in a local scrapyard with a nearly
perfect body. I mean the body, floors, frame,
everything on this bus is rock solid, barely even
surface rust. The bus is complete right down to the
ignition key, but the engine is locked up. Guy says
he'll take $400 for the bus, I start to get excited
because I know I can pick up an engine for a few
hundred bucks, throw it in, put on some paint and have
a VERY nice bus for less than a grand. So I start
really looking over the bus, it looks great EXCEPT the
front beam on the drivers side where it attaches to
the body is TOTALLY DISINTEGRATED, rust city!  Ok, a
only minor set back, because I have a 79 parts bus
which I bought for the engine in my barn. Its a pretty
solid bus except for the smashed nose from an
accident, so I can just swap out the beam to the 78. I
go home and crawl under the 79 and guess what?? ROTTEN
FRONT BEAM!!
So what is the deal with these late bay front beams
that they turn to dust long before the body of the bus
does? Is this common, and what are the odds of me
finding a good used one for sale if I decide to buy
the bus?
So far I have owned 3 splits, and 3 early bays ALL of
these had good beams. I have owned\seen only 2 late
bays and BOTH of those had rotten front beams.
Coincidence or not???

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
