From: "Jerry & Melissa Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "type2 \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>, "vintagebus \(E-mail\)"
Date: Mon, 15 Sep 2003 08:01:25 -0700
Subject: Jerome Jamboree XIII

Just a short note on Jerome--Could have been one of the most Moving Jerome's
ever--Lots of money was donated by the people at Jerome for two people
seriously ill--Bus people have a BIG Heart--Cloudless skies--great weather.
The raffle bus was won by a  lady in Chandler, Aridzona-- Terrible Two's and
VTO were just two of the many VW clubs at the show.  But, Both of these
clubs played a Large part as Always--Colorado Bus club , and Vintage Type
2's , Buskatiers, Swato, NEATO. -- J.P. sold a lot of NEATO stuff--1973
Camper was raffled off for just $425.00. Also for the 1st time ever, ABC
gave a 2nd place consolation prize in the drawing for the raffle bus--The
Jerome Trophies were the finest ever thanks to Mark==One of my favorites
sights, was a Monster tent form Tibet !! The ABC must as always be commended
for another VANtastic Jerome Jamboree Experience--Next year an Original
camper will be the raffle prize !! Start saving money for your .50 cent
tickets now--The winner of this years bus  bought $10.00 worth of tickets !
The ABC would like to thank everyone for their support--This is a VW show
for the people in the VW circle of friends--It is very possible that The
Arizona VW Bus Club, since their start, has reached the $70,000 mark in cash
donations to many Charities--That is really something to be proud of.The
entire Board of ABC past and present must be commended for their tireless
efforts--Jon and Debbie Stanton and the ABC board, have put in countless
hours again this year-- The ABC, says thanks to all, and the many venders
and sponsors, and donations to get that lovely 1967 Deluxe on the road--
Hope to see ALL of you there in September of 2004--TWWM
