Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2001 23:01:53 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <dtk3001(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: It is Friday where I am

Hello List

Well friday has finially come where I live on the East
coast. It is 1:11 in the morning. I am going to get
mushy and alittle weird on y'all for a second, but I
want to say it. This is an definitely a Friday only
topic.Here it goes. 

I am so proud to be a part of such a diverse and
friendly group of people. I know that every group has
it disagreements and this group is no exception, but
the bond that air cooled VW owners have is special and
unique. How many other groups of car owners have a
list of people settup that are willing to drive miles
out of their way, in the middle of the night to help
out a fellow member in need? What other group has some
members that will take the risk of letting a complete
stranger camp out in their yard and join them for
breakfast in the morning all because they both
appreciate the same car and the life that goes along
with it? VW owners are the only ones that come to my
mind. 

Another thing about these VW owners is they are made
up of such a dirverse group of people. This group is
made up of people from all over the world with
different backgrounds and lifestyles. You will not
find many other cars that have such an international
appeal and charm. 

I guess what I am trying to say is if you ever find
your self frusterated, depressed, angry, or
disappointed with your bus,Vanagon,single or double
cabs,ect..., stop and take a moment to think about the
good times you have had and the feeling of
accomplishment and joy that you have had because of
your vehicle. That is what keeps me going. I have had
my bus for 3 years. I have never driven it on the
road, seen it in new paint or enjoyed the feel of new
uphulstery but I keep working on it, and If I enjoy
driving  it half as much as I have enjoyed working on
it, than I think it will have all been worth it. I
want to thank everyone on the type 2 list for all of
the things that I have learned from you!! I would have
given up on my bus long ago if it hadn't been for this
list. Because of you, one day my bus will live again.
Thanks for all of you that have read this far! (sorry
for the length of it.) I wish all of you good luck
with your VWs!!!

Have a great day!!!
and thanks for bearing with me!

David Kelly
From Wilmington, North Carolina

=====
"Busses make great leaders. You always see them in front of a long line of cars"
-Kevin Bryan

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Make international calls for as low as $.04/minute with Yahoo! Messenger
http://phonecard.yahoo.com/
