Date: Mon, 13 Jun 2005 09:03:21 -0400
From: "Messa, Corbett \(GE Infrastructure\)" <Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: brakes?

So after working on my friends bus all week I decided to fire my bus back up
after it has been sitting for a few weeks. When moving around the driveway I
noticed that it had a severe drag and pulled to the left. So I took off the
wheels to see if one was dragging. The front left wheel was first and I could
not even turn it my hand.... So I took the tire off and it looked like the
brake was binding. I ended up having to take the entire caliper off to get the
brakes loose. The wheel spins freely now, so it looks like the brake caliper
was stuck. I accidentally broke the metal brake line while I was doing this,
so I am ordering new parts today. I noticed that when I pressed on the brake
petal no fluid comes out of the brake line. The reservoir is full, but no
fluid goes to the wheel. I took off the other wheel and it also did not turn.
Looks like the same problem. A visual inspection from the master cylinder to
the wheel and all the lines looked fine unless the T is clogged with
something. Rear wheels spin freely.

What would cause the brakes to lock in a closed position and not have much
fluid in the line? Has anyone seen this and what ended up being the issue?

I might just order the entire front brake system from BD from the master
cylinder to the caliper including the metal and rubber hoses. This should fix
my problem, but will cost me a little $$$. I would rather not take any chances
when it comes to brakes..

Thanks,
Corbett
