From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>, "type2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "list vintage
Date: Mon, 10 Nov 2003 08:45:30 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Cooling air, gas heaters, and J tubes

I recently installed a gas heater into my bus. As for fuel consumption, I
haven't noticed that much of a change. I actually haven't noticed any
change, but I'm sure if I whipped out the pen and paper, and did the math, I
could see the numbers. I even let the thing sit and warm up for 15-20
minutes before I leave for work each morning. I think I lucked out. This
thing just sips fuel.

I disconnected the rear heater, and left the front heater hooked up. I never
use the stock heater though, except for defrosting the front windshield.
Once you get the interior of the bus warmed up though, you don't necessarily
need a front defroster, at least that I've found. Unless it's a really rainy
day, and your safari's are leaking. Then it fogs up the windows.

With the thermostatic control, the gas heater creates a much more
'consistant' temperature inside than the stock heater ever did. Even in cool
weather, I still use the gas heater, because with the heater set on low,
it's so comfortable. It doesn't get hotter when you get on the highway, or
colder when you sit at a traffic light. It stays the same temp inside no
matter what. The days of me having hot or cold spots in my bus are long
gone.

As for gaining extra cooling by plugging the outlets in the shroud, it will
help, but probably not enough to be noticable. When the system is hooked up
like stock, most of the air going through the heater boxes is stopped. There
is a small outlet on the end of the heaterbox that keeps a certain amount of
air flowing through it so it doesn't overheat. You definitly need to plug
the holes in the shoud and the rear tin if you aren't running heaterboxes,
otherwise you will run hot.

Eric Allred
64 Bus
