From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 28 Sep 2004 19:04:21 +0000
Subject: RE:  Emission Control Continued....

Hey, Mike...  I am sorry but I don't get the digest so I cannot respond to 
you directly.

(1)  I am curious about your muffler.  What kind is it??  I notice that the 
holes are oblong rather than a one-to-one fit.  [Man, why didn't I say 1-2-1 
fit?]   The oblong hole on the strap that is attached to the engine is a 
weak point.     That strap may quickly break.  I am sorry; WILL quickly 
break.

Does anyone have an suggestions on how to strengthen that strap area??

(2)  I am sorry, but your EGR VALVE looks to be a bit distressed (POS).  You 
simply cannot just attach everything and expect your EGR system to work.

(3) the missing piece off the muffler is an EGR FILTER.  Check the vendors 
for a new one.  Pricy, but needed since the exhaust carbon will quickly clog 
up your EGR VALVE (which is probably clogged anyways, as most of them are 
clogged)

(4) If you buy and attach an EGR FILTER, and you remove and perfectly 
cleanup the EGR VALVE and you get the MISSING LINK from the EGR VALVE to the 
throttle, you STILL must clean out the tube(s) that are in the intake 
manifold.  This is NOT a simple feat.  It is something that you do as you 
watch the football games, and then the basket ball games, and then the 2006 
winter Olympics, and then the TV rerun of Terminator IV, starring the then 
current secretary of state [now, what's his name??  Cute wife, though...]

This, of course will increase the value of your VW da-nada, and similarly 
the performance; i. e., cooling the engine temp by xyz degrees because you 
are feeding noncombustible exhaust gases into the pistons, which is then 
maintaining the high compression ratio, but burning the lower combustible 
mixture at a lower temp.  think about it.  What do you think would happen to 
your VW engine if you ran JP5 fuel??  Wouldn't you burn it up pronto??  Now 
you are putting in exhaust gas - air-fuel ratio is the same, but there is 
another 10% of unburnable exhaust fumes there to allow the air-fuel mixture 
to compress higher, but less of it.  Like running a 1.7 engine inside a 1.8 
engine, I guess.

Of course the EGR VALVE cuts this exhaust gas at idle (why choke the engine) 
and at full throttle (you are running at full throttle for a reason, and you 
want the most power available) so this is just cooling your engine during 
normal driving...

But enjoy the flick.

Alternate points of view solicited.

Barry sends

_________________________________________________________________
FREE pop-up blocking with the new MSN Toolbar  get it now! 
http://toolbar.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200415ave/direct/01/
