From: "The Bus Depot" <ron(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Mar 2005 13:48:34 -0500
Subject: KONI Shock **NEW** Group Buy! - HURRY!

Now that the first group buy on Koni bus shocks has come and gone, several
list members have emailed me asking if there is any chance of another one.
Due to a sudden turn of events, it looks like it might be a possibility, but
only if we act quickly.

To recap, last fall Richard Atwell tried a pair of rear Koni's on his bus
and was super-impressed with their performance.  See Ratwell's detailed
write-up at <http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Koni.html> . These are
probably the best shocks ever made for a Bus, are actually user-adjustable
for ride firmness upon installation, and carry a lifetime warranty from
Koni.  Richard learned that Koni had once made front Bus shocks but had long
ago discontinued them. His positive experience with the rears led him to
contact Koni and ask whether they would consider doing a special run of
fronts.  When Koni seemed willing to consider it, Richard handed the project
off to me, and I was able to negotiate a discount price on both fronts and
rears and see it through to fruition. It took Koni a few months to build
them for us, and they were delivered in two shipments this winter, the last
of which just recently reached those who went in on the group buy. (As an
update, it seems that the Bus rears are also  being discontinued, or
relegated to non-stocking "special order" status; the U.S. Koni distributor
was not clear on which.)

As it happens, Koni's U.S. distributor contacted me today to inform me that
an across-the-board Koni price hike is coming next week, and asked if I
needed any more Vanagon shocks before the price increase.  I took the
opportunity to ask him whether there was any chance of convincing Koni to do
a second run of the Bus shocks. He says he will have to ask them on Tuesday
(most of Europe is closed until then for the Easter holiday).  Koni has now
doubled the minimum quantity required to custom make a shock, which would
likely put another group buy permanently out of our reach. But he will see
if he can squeeze one more group buy in at the old minimum quantity, which
may be reachable. If they agree, they will also be at the old prices!

Koni will let me know on Tuesday whether they're willing to do it. If they
agree, I will have to give them an "on the spot" yes or no answer, as the
price increase takes effect the very next day!  So what I need to know,
ASAP, is how many people are in. Even if Koni agrees to the lower quantity,
I will still need at least 25 people who want the shocks.

If we can make this happen, it will work exactly the same as the first group
buy. Here are the details:

The price will be $89.95 per shock if you order all four shocks (front and
rear) or $99.95 per shock if you order fronts only. No further discounts
apply, and prices exclude shipping from PA.  I assume that most people will
want all four, as they did last time. (Incidentally, the fronts fit '70-79
according to Koni. I'm honestly not sure why they don't list them as fitting
'68-69.)  Do not expect fast delivery. It took Koni about 12-15 weeks to
build them for us last time, and I would expect the same timeframe again. We
are at the mercy of Koni's schedule in this regard, but they did deliver
roughly when promised the first time around.

I will require a $25 per pair (or $50 per set of 4) NON-REFUNDABLE deposit,
with the balance due when the shocks arrive. (This is the same thing we did
on the first group buy.) The reason for the non-refundable deposit is that
once I give Koni the order I have to pay a nonrefundable deposit myself and
cannot cancel the order, so I must be sure that all orders are firm. The
balance will not be due until the shocks are in my hands and on their way to
you. If (and only if) Koni were for some reason unable to provide the shocks
(highly unlikely), then the deposit would of course be fully refunded.

To order a full set of front and rear at $89.95 per shock plus shipping, go
to:

<http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=SP4>

To order fronts only at $99.95 per shock plus shipping, go to:

<http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=SP5>

I will know on Tuesday if the group buy is a go. This will depend on how
many shocks Koni requires us to buy, and how many list members opt in by
Monday night  If the group buy is a go, I will charge you the deposit then.
If not, you pay nothing; the order will simply be cancelled and nothing will
be charged.

I also expect to have maybe 4-6 sets of Koni's left over from the first
group buy, which can be shipped right away. I will offer these to people who
sign up for the second group buy, on a first-come first-served basis (based
on time/date of orders placed via the above links), but for $10 more per
shock. (The reason for the higher price is that those who were part of the
first group buy left deposits to partially offset the HUGE downpayment I had
to give Koni out of my own pocket; in exchange they got a better price.)  If
you order via the above links, you are committing to be part of the second
group buy unless you are one of those who is offered the few I have now.  If
you end up being one of those who is offered these shocks now, you'll have
the option to take them now for $10 more per shock, or just wait for the
second group buy shipment to arrive at the lower price.  If any are left
unclaimed (which I doubt), I'll offer them to other listmembers at that
point.

Please pmail me if you have any questions or if any of this is unclear.

As I said there are no promises until Koni gets back to me on Tuesday, but
if enough people opt in by Tuesday morning I will do everything I can to
make it happen.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
