From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 28 Apr 2003 16:39:05 +0000
Subject: [T2] Brake Job 

Dean asked::>> Just wondering if anyone has changed the shoes on a 1972 bus. 
  Any
advice..

Dean, I just got thru with my '72 rear brakes this weekend.

1)  The 'stock '72 has a brake bar that uses 1 horseshoe clip on each end.  
there are 2 brake bars, so there are 4 horseshoe clips.  These clips are 
only $.25 each at bus depot, so be sure to order them if you are going back 
to '72 shoes ('72 brake shoes DO NOT have the slit at the top for the 
horizontal brake bars of the '73-'79).  If you plan to use the '73-79 brake 
shoes, you may want to keep the original '72 brake bars, or change to the 
'73-'79 NLA brake bars

1a)  If you feel adventurous, and this is not a daily driver, you could take 
the brake shoes to a major brake place and have them reline them for you.  
Probably not much cheaper than getting from the Bus Depot, but you could 
meet some nice people there.

2)  Replace the  springs.  Get a kit from bus depot.  I broke a spring on my 
'78 just last month , and I had to steal one from the '72.  Better to pay 
the $12 or so for new springs.

3)  check the brake cylinder pistons to be sure they all work.  My '72 had 
one piston that had collected so much crud that it was immoveable.  I did 
have to work at it to get it free.  I removed the bolt that held the wheel 
cylinders on, broke the wheel cylinders free from the backing plate just a 
1/8 inch so I could remove all the dust caps.  They were so crud infested 
that I pulled all the pistons so I found one was stuck.

4)  you probably know now, but you can easily do this brake job without 
taking the big nut off.  The wheel axle nut.

5)  Follow anyone's/everyone's advice on the adjusting stars.  About 4 
months before, I had R&R the brake shoes and at that time I cleaned up the 
adjusting star assemblies.  All 4 adjusting starts were spin-on-able onto 
the adjusting nut while on my work bench.  I steel wooled and sanded clean 
the four retaining holders on the backing plate.  Before I put the stars 
into the holders, I lightly applied white lithium grease, and then used a 
nylon washer between the metal adjusting start and the holders (backing 
plate attached) so there was no metal to metal between the adjusting stars 
and the holders.  (I filed the edge of the adjusting stars so they would not 
catch on the holder; no rough spots between stars and holders.)


NONETHELESS


when I took them apart this weekend, I had to use a hammer and 'chisel' type 
screwdriver to beat out TWO of the four stars!!  Not only would they NOT 
TURN, 2 would not come out without persuasion!!!  The adjustiing studs 
turned fine, just the stars would not budge.

AND THIS '72 has not been on the road since I got it, and has only been 
outside the garage for 4-6 hours one time!!!  And the stars worked fine when 
I adjusted them 4 months ago...



This time, I just cleaned the barrels of the stars (wet emery paper) and the 
inside of the holders (same) and put NO GREASE on them  (maybe anti seize 
might be a thought, but that can wait for another time)  My advice is to NOT 
use a heavy grease.


6)  don't forget to turn the drums.  If you don't know of a place, most 
small mechanics will have a turning machine for drums and rotors, and even 
Sears.  But do call around and check on the prices.  I found best price was 
a PEP Boys ($8), and second best was at a small mechanic's shop ($10) that I 
frequently used.  Sears and a machine shop were the more expensive 
($15-$25).  Besides, my local mechanic did it while I waited. And watched.

7)  For me, one of my rear brake hoses was closed and had to be replaced.  
(along with one of my front brake hoses.  I did all four.)  You can quickly 
check this BEFORE you get into the brake work by just cracking each bleeder 
screw and trying to bleed the brake fluid a bit.  On the front, I did get a 
few squirts out before it got completely stopped up, so be sure to get 
enough fluid out that you are satisfied that the hose does function.

8) I am only mentioning the rear brakes on the '72, not suggesting that you 
look at the front or the master cylinder or the  booster lines.  I am sure 
others have mentioned them already.

Barry does lunch
Springfield VA


_________________________________________________________________
Help STOP SPAM with the new MSN 8 and get 2 months FREE*  
http://join.msn.com/?page=features/junkmail
