Date: Tue, 23 Jul 2002 20:57:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: COMPLETE 72-74 refurbiushed exhaust system 4 Sale (-at-) High Country

Hello List,

Here is what I have. It is a BugPack single quiet pack
exhaust system + headers to replace unused heater
boxes, all new gaskets, new stainless steel exhaust
bolts and brass nuts. 

The BugPack exhaust is a barely used setup that I
purchased from my local VW garage. If I had to
estimate, I would say that it easily had less than a
year's use out of it and is in great condition. The
headers came from a porsche 411. They are thick and
solid with no holes or thin spots. 

Each piece of the exhaust was tediously sand blasted
to remove grime, paint and rust. Each piece was washed
in Marine Clean and properly painted with POR 15
exhaust manifold grey paint. I put at least 3-4 thin
coats on each piece. I purchased stainless steel bolts
and brass nuts to replace the original black steel
nuts and bolts that were with the exhaust. If I can
find them I will include the bolts that attach the
headers to the heads. Every gasket that is needed to
install this exhaust is included. All are new and
unused. They include the brass oval gaskets that go
between the header pipes and the heads as well as the
rest of the exhaust gaskets.

Just the BugPack exhaust by it self new costs $111.25
+/- $18-$25 sh/h. and it doesn't come with the header
pipes, the stainless and brass hardware, or the High
quality POR 15 protective coating. I was going to use
this exhaust with my engine but my engine has
triangular exhaust flanges and I can't use it with
those headers. I am cutting my costs very close with
this price. I want $100.00 for it. If you are planning
on going to High Country, then you pay no shipping as
I will bring it with me. I do not have a picture of
the entire setup tonight as I just finished applying
the last POR 15 coats today. Here are some pictures of
the BugPack exhaust and the headers right after I sand
blasted them. The old tin that was on the 411 headers
was removed and eventually ditched because the tin was
not worth the effort to save.

http://www.cartogra.com/rs/6F136470-9CF6-11D6-B42C-0090277A760E/

 I will have pictures of the entire settup tomorrow
afternoon. Please contact me if you are interested in
this setup.

Thanks!

David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Health - Feel better, live better
http://health.yahoo.com
