From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 17 Apr 2004 12:05:07 -0400
Subject: NEW Side Tent - $199 with Floor, for a SHORT time!

For those who have been awaiting a nice side tent at a low price, I have
a deal for you -  $199 with a couple of freebies included as well, if
you order one right away.

In roughly two weeks, my new budget-priced side tent will arrive. It
will be similar to my previous one in design (a nylon dome style tent)
but with upgraded build quality (poles, material, stitching) and also a
few minor design improvements. One upgrade is that a specially fitted
ground sheet will be available for it. Combined with the sleeping cabin,
this will effectively add a floor to the whole tent. This solves the
issue that modern European side tents lack a floor, whereas most
Americans want one.

Not surprisingly, the price will go up slightly. My old one was $199
including a sleeping cabin. This one will be $199 just for the tent. The
sleeping cabin and ground sheet will be offered together, for an
additional $29 if purchased with the tent or $99 if bought separately
later. This is an excellent price for this package, and is in fact
artificially low. I bought these when the dollar was stronger. If I had
to buy them now they'd be closer to $300.  

HERE'S THE DEAL ... For anyone who orders one right now, I'm going to
include the sleeping cabin and ground sheet FREE with the $199 tent.
This is a price that I doubt I will be able to offer again.

Why discount a brand new item?  We have a small shop and I have about 60
of these coming - about 20 more than we have storage space for!  This
problem is solved if I can literally take 20 tents out of the container
when it arrives, slap a label on them, and hand them directly to UPS. 

You can see info and pics on the tent at the following link:
http://busdepot.com/busdepot/details/tents.jsp 

You can get in on this deal by ordering at the following link:
http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=A0097  It will come up at
$229.95. But enter Coupon Code TENT on the checkout page and it will
drop to $199.95. As always, you will not be charged until it ships
(around May 1). 

This offer will end when 20 have been sold (or 3 days before the
container arrives, whichever comes first). At that time the coupon code
will be retired. If you are one of the few who backordered this tent
around the end of last year when first I sold out of the 2003 version,
don't worry; yours will be the first out the door, and I've already got
you down for this price. 

By the way I will also have a higher-end side tent for $339 with
sleeping cabin that will hold its own to any $600 tent (recommended if
you plan to use your tent heavily/frequently, although it isn't nearly
as compact and lightweight as the cheaper one when stored).  Details are
on the same page. And I will have a really nice awning for around $119,
although I don't have details ready quite yet (stay tuned). 

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
