From: "Jay Ollom" <jayollom(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Wed, 17 Jul 2002 18:29:03 +0000
Subject: Please help my semi-camper my bus.

I am trying to "partly camper" my 74 standard bus.  I am learning, but I do 
not yet know all of the options that are available to me.  There are only a 
few things I really want to change anyway.  Right now, I have 3 main 
questions on how I could go about doing some of my modifications.

I would like to retain the seating capacity of my bus (I have a full back 
seat, and a 2/3 middle), and yet still have a seating arrangement that can 
convert into a (primitive) bed with minimal effort and tools.  If I could 
pull forward and then fold down the back and middle seat so they lay flat 
and meet so they create a flat surface that would be perfect.  Something 
like this:
Upright:   \_ \_
Folded:     _ _ _ _
Do you see what I mean?  Is that how the "Z" bed works?  I have not seen one 
yet, just seen posts about them.  Did they make those in plain old vinyl 
seats?

I would also like to have an AC outlet in my bus.  Now, the AC outlet from a 
camper only operates when it’s powered by the campsite supply, right?  I 
would like to take that further. I was thinking I could wire a small DC to 
AC inverter into the mix so that I could power things off of a 2nd deep 
cycle battery.  I know there are a million posts on how to add the battery 
isolator and second battery, but that is not what I am asking here.  What I 
would like to know is if there is a way to power the AC outlet from the 
battery through an inverter while in motion or not connected to a campsite 
power supply, but to have it switch over automatically (or maybe just a 
light switch, though that’s kind of lame looking) when the bus is plugged 
into the power supply.  Is any of this stuff possible?

Lastly, I like heat!  I am really not a big fan of the cold at all, and I 
will need some kind of heat in my bus while camping or sleeping in it.  What 
do you folks use to keep your tootsies warm on those cold winter nights?  I 
have heard that the gas heaters were not really meant to be run for too long 
without the bus running, because they can suck down a battery pretty quick, 
is that true?   Otherwise, that would seem the perfect solution.  What about 
vent-less heaters, such as a Coleman Catalytic heater, or a small kerosene 
heater?  Would that be safe to use in a minimally vented bus?  The catalytic 
heaters that Coleman puts out way they can be used in tents and enclosed 
areas.  I have used one before and they don’t stink like crazy and use 
minimal amounts of fuel.

Thanks all,
Jay


_________________________________________________________________
Join the world’s largest e-mail service with MSN Hotmail. 
http://www.hotmail.com

