Date: Thu, 1 Apr 2004 12:51:41 -0800 (PST)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Engine downgrades (a touch long)

Yes, type IV is such a great powerplant.  It
gives you nearly 5 or even 8 horsepower more. 
You'll really miss it if you "downgrade."  The
rods and valves never fail.  Moreover, people who
work on the type 1 style engine don't develop
nearly the muscles that the typeIV guys do,
because the type1 just isn't as good for your
physical training.  You really have to bench
press that tiny type 1 many, many times to get a
decent workout.  

But what you'll miss those expensive parts that
are usually available only by mailorder.  It's
just not a challenge when you can just walk into
any foreign car flaps parts place and pick up the
needed parts off the shelf--- you get spoiled. 
Heck anybody can build a decent engine with new
heads and cases, like the type 1 guys do.  Show
me some skills buy wleding machinining one of
those 200,000 type IV cases and heads, or I'm not
impressed.  

I know I miss my type IV engines.  Well, not
really.  
