From: Karl von Salzen <aufever(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: buslist <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 23 Sep 2009 11:18:26 -0700
Subject: From Karl's daughter

Hi all,

As many of you know, my father passed away. After a long battle with a
terminal blood condition, he died peacefully in his sleep just after 6:30 on
Wednesday the 16th.

For those that would like a little understanding of what happened, I'll
explain. He was diagnosed with a terminal blood condition, Polycythemia Vera,
almost 10 years ago. Over the last year, the condition had morphed into
Leukemia. Leukemia can be cured, Polycythemia can not; with Polycythemia all
one can do is treat the symptoms. He had been being treated for Leukemia for
the last several months. After suffering through three full courses of
chemotherapy that had no real positive results, the doctors suggested trying a
new one, or rather different type of chemo. But his body had so much organ
damage, it couldn't tolerate the chemo this last time. The first dose of the
new type threw his body into acute kidney failure and he died from septic
shock.

It was fast, he had been abulatory the day before. In fact, I saw him, on his
way into the oncologists office to get the chemo Tuesday afternoon. Our
doctors share the same professional building. As I was walking in, he called
to me, by way of offering candy or a puppy. (It's a family joke, "Want some
candy, little girl?" It's a little morbid, if you get the reference, but what
can I say? LOL!)  I turned around at the door as he stepped up onto the
sidewalk. There happened to be a senior woman standing there at the curb, a
tiny white-haired woman presumably waiting for her ride. She was looking a
little puzzled by Dad's greeting to me so I turned to her and said, "He's my
Dad." I didn't want her think some "old" guy was giving me trouble. Dad smiled
and the proceded to tell her a joke, something about a Jewish man and candy.
That's the way he handled most things, the great cure-all, telling a raunchy
or non-PC joke. She just stood there nodding and grinning, in a way that led
me to believe she didn't hear all that well but was trying to be polite. Then
after, Dad and I walked in the building together. I asked, "What about
balloons? Do you have any balloons?" He said, "No." Then I said, "I don't
think the lady got your joke." I thought briefly, "It's not the first time
someone didn't get your joke, and it wont be the last," but for all I know, it
may have been the last. From there, we parted ways. Our doctors offices were
in two different directions.

The job to sort through his VW parts, buses and supplies has fallen to me. If
any of you had some business transaction or agreement in the works, please let
me know so that I can make good on it, if at all possible. If you didn't have
something in the works but wish you had or have just realized you need a part,
feel free to contact me. I'm sure it is what Dad would have wanted, for me to
put his parts to good use...and it would help my mother and me out a great
deal, to figure out what to do with all this stuff. There is a lot here, a
hoard of VW stuff.

Keep in mind that I'm not as savy as you all are with the jargon, the VW
shorthand. Try to be as detailed and specific as possible in your request...I
can't locate a part for you, if I'm not clear on what it is, what you need.

As you can see, I have control of Dad's email account. Please send your notes
offlist. I'm not really reading the list mail. If you send things meant for me
to read to the list, I probably will not see it.

Michelle

 		 	   		  
_________________________________________________________________
Lauren found her dream laptop. Find the PC thats right for you.
http://www.microsoft.com/windows/choosepc/?ocid=ftp_val_wl_290
