Date: Fri, 14 Dec 2007 18:20:32 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: 'Tis the Season... for Brakes, Clunks, & Squeaks?

I swear that any time someone on the list posts about
a problem, within the next month almost everybody
seems to have something related go wrong!

My gauge for when to tighten the rear brakes is how
far out the parking brake handle comes when I set the
brake. It was coming out "all the way!" The brakes
were so bad that I'd park Bussy on the level and he'd
be fine, but when I set the parking brake, he'd start
rolling! (That's BAD BRAKES! (just kidding!)

I left work early last Wednesday and put the back end
up to start the adjusting proceedings. Right rear 1st,
star wheels won't budge. It's been over a year, what
with all the down time dealing with engines. I
jil-poked a 4x6 chunk under the tire and loosened the
lugnuts. The drum was on to stay, but after a few
hundred hit of the 3-pounder, it came off. When it
came off, however, several pieces dropped to the
ground! I rounded them up and it was all the pieces of
the parking brake assembly. Everything was there
except the cotter pin, which was deeply embedded in
one shoe. The drum surface wasn't bad. It wasn't good,
either, but as things go, it wasn't bad at all. I
reassembled everything and put anti-seize on the star
wheel threads and surfaces, and after a bit of messing
around, the rear brakes were all adjusted properly.

Next problem, the pedal wasn't any higher than before
(Uh-oh) and it took 3 pumps to git it up! Saturday, up
at 7am and ready to bleed brakes. 27 degrees out
there. Dressed warmer and spent about 5 minutes out
there and decided to run some errands instead! By the
end of the day, I couldn't put it off any longer, so I
backed Bussy up on the ramps. I grabbed a big
vice-grip and attached it to the brake pedal arm and
attached a long tie-strap to it, and to a frame
crossmember back as far as it could reach. I loosened
the RR bleeder a bit, stuck my clear plastic tube with
checkvalve in it on the bleeded, opened the bleeded
some more, and started pumping the brake by pulling on
the strap. Got a ton of bubbles. Switched to the left
rear and got some tiny bubbles - almost foam.
Everything cleared up and I checked the pedal. Up high
and hard. Perfect. Once again, it stops like a bus!
Parking brake handle pulls out about 3" - just where I
like it.

So a few months back, "clunking" sounds were going
around. Yep, I had my episode, too! The right front
shock upper mount. It took a 3ft leverage bar and
pushing with my foot, but I got rid of the clunk! (No
- I didn't break the bolt off, thank you!)

In betwixt those was a perplexing problem. A few years
ago I had new ball joints installed. A year later, the
loudest, most annoying squeak occurred with every
-even the slightest - turn and/or bump. It was the
right side ball joint - one of 'em. I eventually had
to drill and tap for zerk fittings and solved the
noise but now the seals are blown and I do have to
keep an overabundance of grease gushing to keep dirt
and water out. Noise was gone - that is, until a
couple weeks ago! The left side decided it was their
turn. I used the right side adventure as an excuse to
buy a Makita right-angle drill and am very happy with
that purchase, BTW! So this time it was just a few
minutes and I had the new zerk fittings in place and
grease pumped in there for no more squeak!

Still not 100% happy with the coolant temps. The
problem, as I see it, is that the coolant does not
flow consistently fast enough for a good thermal mix.
I think the thermostat is closing / opening / closing,
etcetera. I'm actually considering either adding a
pump or moving the radiator to the back. Neither is
sure to solve the problem, but hey, it's all an
experiment anyway!

If I don't get back in here before then, I wish all of
you, my friends, happy and safe holidays. - BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.


      ____________________________________________________________________________________
Looking for last minute shopping deals?  
Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.  http://tools.search.yahoo.com/newsearch/category.php?category=shopping
