Date: Fri, 15 Nov 2002 18:49:26 -0800 (PST)
From: Andrew Mueller <thedrewmueller(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: More starter problems

OK, now I am really confused.  I have now been able to
spin the starter with a screwdriver.  I have also
checked voltage coming from ignition wire and that
checks out at 19V so it isn't my ignition switch, I
have checked the braided wire going from one of the
big terminals to the starter and it gets 11.5V, but
still the cylinoid just clunks when I either bypass
the ingition with a screwdriver or turning the key. 
So, what are the possible causes of the cylinoid not
engaging the starter motor but still engaging with a
clunk?  Also, the other blue wire that is a slip on
type that connects to the cylinoid doesn't get any
juice from turning the key, but is it supposed to?  I
think this is the wire that goes to the coil.  Just
trying to figure what I need to replace to get the
show on the road, there's skiing to be done!

=====
Keep it positive
Drew
Denver, CO 80220
'83 Air Cooled Westy

"Enjoy the outdoors, you're living in a painting"    -  Starke Mueller
Yahoo! Web Hosting - Let the expert host your site
http://webhosting.yahoo.com
