From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 16 May 2005 11:19:55 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Westy tent?

> I bought one of the tent's that Ron sells for my 78 std.  Terrific!
> It's a driveaway tent.  Leave it up, drive off and back and no big
> deal. Once my wife and I set it up a couple of times, it was easy.



Someone asked whether people really use their tents. Count me in as one who
does, all the time. But I no longer use a vintage tent, although I once did.
I, too, found the original Bus tent a bit too unwieldy, and now use a more
modern one.

The vintage Westy tent is very nice, but far from modern. It's great if you
want a "vintage" look, but for most people a more modern tent will be easier
to set up, take up less space in storage, and be much cheaper. (The vintage
ones command quite a premium on Ebay etc.!)  Also they attach to the bus
much more easily, using a pole that clamps into the rain gutter instead of
that god-awful rubber seal that you have to coax along the lip of your rain
gutter.

The aftermarket tents fall into three categories:  Dome tent style without
floor, dome tent style with floor (only available from us), and frame style.


The dome tents are vinyl, which means they pack down incredibly small. You
can store them under the back seat with room to spare, as opposed to the
frame style tents (vintage or new) that take up a lot of room when packed.
They are also much, much faster and easier to set up and take down.  The
basic model starts at $199. This is a budget tent and is best for periodic
use.  Nothing fancy but the small storage size, ease of assembly, and low
price make it viable for those who just don't see using a side tent all that
often.

The ones with floors are a brand new offering from the Bus Depot, and are
the first ones available in 25 years to have a complete sewn-in floor (as
opposed to a floored sleeping cabin and a ground sheet).  They are also even
faster to set up than the budget dome style tent, due to improved
color-coded poles. We have a smaller version for $299, and a big version for
$399 that has a couple of rooms plus storage. You can store your belongings
in it, open up part of it into a shaded pavillion, and still have a separate
private room for sleeping/changing, all at the same time, yet packed down it
fits under your back seat. These floored tents are the best choice for most
people. They are the easiest to set up, are very small when packed, and have
a full floor.

The frame tent is a very heavy duty canvas tent, much like the vintage one.
As such, it will take up more space than the dome tents, and takes a bit
longer to put up or take down (although not as long as the vintage one).  On
the other hand it is a seriously well made tent that will probably outlast
your bus. :-)

Personally, I have both frame tent and one of our Ezy-Awnings. The
Ezy-Awning goes up in all of ten minutes (tops), so it's easy to use in
situations where I just won't be there long enough to justify setting up a
side tent. Plus it works on asphalt using the wheel/jackpoint mount, so it's
great for tailgating at concerts, shows, or other situations where I can't
stake it down.  It's so small that I can keep it in the camper at all times
and have it handy when I need it. On the other hand, when I'm going to be
camping for two nights or more, I use my tent. Having the extra space just
makes camping so much easier!  We store our cooler, bags, etc. in the
"sleeping cabin" area instead of tripping over them inside the camper. (When
our daughter was younger we even put a porta-potty there for her.) We put up
a small table and folding chairs in the other half, and lift the sides up,
to turn it into a shaded "pavilion" when it's really hot or rainy.  Just
getting all of the junk out of the bus, so you can actually move around in
the bus, makes a world of difference.  It literally doubles your living
area!

You can find more info and pics on all of our tents, and our Ezy-Awning, at:

<https://pointer.webappcabaret.net/busdepot/details/tents.jsp>

Please note that this link will change in a few weeks as part of our server
upgrade, when we move it to a busdepot domain. But you can always find it by
clicking on the year of your bus from the homepage, and then on the green
"i" icon directly next to the "Tents & Awnings" category.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
