From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: stevo(-at-)efn.org
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 05 Mar 2003 13:25:58 +0000
Subject: re: [T2] more with heater thread -too long

You said:
>the other
is a minumum/maximum heat switch. that second lever actuates the blower
motor over the engine only on maximum full-blast.  so, heat creeps through,
and the fan only comes on with full steam ahead, is that right?   - steve


Steve, The MECHANICAL ENGINE FAN (the one you shoot your timing light on) 
produces the massive flow of fresh air thru the heat exchangers (where it is 
heated).  It is ALWAYS on when the engine is running, since it turns with 
the main crank shaft.

The ELECTRICAL FAN that is mounted on top of your engine, to the top of the 
engine bay, with the two fat air hoses is only on when (1) the ignition is 
on and (2) the middle lever is pushed all the ways down (micro switch).


So, if you just turn your ignition on, with the middle lever to the lowest 
level, you will hear the electrical fan running.  And if all your 
connections are good to the front windshield defrost vents, you will feel 
some slight air with your fingertips.  Air will be ambient temperature, 
since the engine has not run and is not providing any heated exhaust air to 
the heat exchangers



When you then turn the engine on, and if you did feel the slight air from 
the electrical fan, you will feel a greater air flow.

You will feel more and more air flow as your engine RPMs increase.

Yes, if your engine is turning, you are not getting much advantage from the 
electrical fan.


Other features:  There should be two small metal flaps (rectangular, about 
1.5" by 2.5") between your fan housing and the heat exchangers.  They will 
keep the electric fan air from forcing its way back thru the fan housing, so 
that the electric fan air pressure will not be wasted. (You cannot see these 
small metal flaps without taking the heat exchanger away from the fan 
housing.)

But when the engine is running, these small metal flaps will swing open with 
the massive pressure from the mechanical engine fan, allowing the mechanical 
engine fan fresh air to enter the heat exchangers, merging with the fresh 
air from the electrical fan, and becoming heated air in the heat exchangers 
(a large farm of radiator fins are in the heat exchangers.  They get 
warm-to-hot from the exhaust gases passing thru the pipe in the center of 
the heat exchangers, and the exhaust gases continuing out the muffler.  The 
fresh air from the two fans passes over this farm of radiator fins, and the 
air get warm, and continues to you as warmed fresh air.)


When the center lever on the dash is raised towards its upper most position, 
the heated fresh air from the two fans is dumped out of the system right in 
front of the engine (comes out thru the heat exchangers, passes up a pair of 
tin risers, and is dumped out at the heater control boxes).  The engine fan 
cannot be shut off, but the electrical fan can be shut off.  In fact, when 
you go slightly up on the middle lever, the electrical fan goes off the 
micro switch, and shuts off.  It is ONLY on when you are requesting the 
maximum temperature (the middle switch) that the electrical fan is running.


This heated fresh air from the mechanical engine fan is being dumped into 
the area just ahead (FIF) of your engine.  It would be nice if there was a 
way to redirect the dumped air out and away from the engine, like to the 
sides of the bus.

OK, Mr. Volkswagen engineer, that is exactly the way the system was designed 
and produced.

The heater control boxes on the original had the heated air diverted, from 
the main passenger compartment thru a pair (one on each side) of metal pipes 
that looked like muffler outlet pipes.

But the heater control boxes are now being reproduced with something that 
looks like a mushroom cap (to disipate the heated fresh air) instead of a 
single round outlet. You cannot use the original 'heated-air exhaust pipes' 
with the newer heater control boxes.

So, unless you have an 'original' system, your heated fresh air is being 
dumped out just under the engine.

Sorry if it appears that I am talking down to you, but I just wanted to 
help.  It took me a while to understand a lot of the basics.

Barry resolves







_________________________________________________________________
Help STOP SPAM with the new MSN 8 and get 2 months FREE*  
http://join.msn.com/?page=features/junkmail
