From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <ted_reshetiloff(-at-)yahoo.com>, "SQUID" <sydclarke(-at-)shaw.ca>,
Date: Sun, 12 Sep 2010 22:39:59 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Dimly glowing battery light

Hi Ted,

The battery light should not glow even dimly when the electrical system is 
properly charging.

The first thing I would do is disconnect the wire from the battery light 
that connects to post D+ on the regulator.  This is the wire that completes 
the circuit when the ignition switch is turned on and juice flows to the 
battery light.  When the engine is not charging -- for instance, before the 
engine is started -- post D+ is a ground and so  the circuit is completed 
and the warning light goes on.  After the engine starts and  the system is 
charging, post D+ is hot,  the circuit is no longer grounded and the light 
goes off.

If the light glows dimly it suggests a short somewhere or insufficient 
voltage at post D+ on the regulator.

By disconnecting the wire to post D+ you can tell if there is a short in 
that circuit because the light will come on when the ignition switch is 
turned on even when wire is not connected to ground at the regulator.

If that circuit checks out properly, you might then check other circuits for 
shorts by pulling fuses at a time to see if shutting down any circuits has 
an effects pn battery light.

Finally, if all the circuits check out clean then check  voltage  at the D+ 
post  when the engine is running at a fast idle.  It should be the same as 
or slightly higher than that at the battery's positive terminal.  If not 
then suspect your regulator. The easiest way to test would be to swap it out 
with a spare.

Cheers,

John
