Date: Tue, 20 May 2003 20:34:48 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Bad Brake Servo, Need Scotch Guard vacuum hose, and the propane

Hello Wonderful People of the List,

I think my brake booster is gone... I had my engine
running without the automatic tranny and brake servo
vacuum hoses hooked up. When I hooked them back up, I
was unable to get the bus to idle and the manifold
vacuum was at zero. I checked the auto tranny by
connecting it to a hand held vacuum pump. It held
vacuum so I knew that was not the problem. I did the
same to the brake servo but even after replacing the
vacuum hose that went to it,with a temporary piece of
heater hose, it was unable to hold any vacuum. Does
this mean that i need to send it in for a rebuild? All
my connections were good. How hard is it to replace
one of these? I have gone through the archives but I
wanted to make sure that it is toast before I take it
out and send it in for a core. My local VW Dealer is
not much help when it comes to buying older vw
parts(i.e. any parts for my "aircooled" vehicle). Does
anyone know where I can get the "Scotch Guard"
reinforced vacuum hose that goes between the engine
and the brake servo? The only thing that my FLAPS
offers that will "fit" is 1/2" heater hose which is
too soft and will collapse.

BTW, I tried desperately to win that 66 bus propane
tank on Eb(-at-)y that I was asking the list about. Unknown
to me, my key board was unpluged and I didn't get it
pluged back in and the computer restarted in time to
bid. That is what I get for trying to bid in the last
20 seconds. It sold for $20.00. Oh well...

Thanks in advance! Have a great day!

Regards,

David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
The New Yahoo! Search - Faster. Easier. Bingo.
http://search.yahoo.com
