Date: Fri, 19 Nov 2004 13:15:24 -0800
From: john kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
Cc: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] wow! anyone ever see this...or use it?

Well, that Kafer is the 1998-2004 model. You can select a VW 1200 from
1947 to 1986, whatever that means! Within that sub group, you select
what kind of manual you want to download. Being very few for that
year, I followed one tree that lead me to a tire manual for 75 euros,
it can be very expensive to use this service.

Getting more relevant to this list, the Type 2 manuals start at 1968,
so nothing for the VB list. If you choose Transporter, you get to pick
documents ranging from 1968 to 2005, with some documents having wide
ranges like 1968-1984 for the common bus/vanagon components. If you
pick Type 2 instead of transporter, there are few documents to choose
from. If you pick model 26 or 27, you get specific 1968-1979 choices,
but there are only self-study programs offered, no repair manuals.
Then when you select that, the only course offered is the course
"Nr.330: The diesel particulate filter system with additive" which
costs 4.60 euros to download. So it would appear to me that the
usefulness of the system to us air-coolers is limited. As you select
the models that have lit in common with Vanagon, the number of
documents you can download increases. But while the tutorial speaks of
buying a workshop manual as an example, the manuals I see offered have
to be ordered separately, like Engine, Automatic Transmission, Heating
and Cooling. For example, the 68-84 Heating & A/C manual for R-134 is
75 euros, but the manual for R12 is 107.40 euros.

Then there is actually a manual range offered for 1968-1992! There you
can buy a lot of manuals for things like Body, , Electrical Equipment,
Engine, Transmission, FI, Wheels & Brakes, Wiring Diagrams, etc. But
even though the year range catagory starts in 68, when you go to order
the Body manual, it says 1980-1991 for 18.40 euros. Ditto engine
mechanical and FI, so I would say the commencement of this group with
1968 is an error. So I think the usefulness of this web site is
limited to us, and the cost of the individual documents can be quite
high. I would say the usefulness of the site would be limited to those
of its stated target audience: the small repair shop that gets in a
vehicle to work on that they don't have a manual for.

John


On Fri, 19 Nov 2004 14:28:26 -0600 (CST), Dave C. Bolen
<dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com> wrote:
 VWAG manuals on line!  from VWAG!?....$6.00 per year!?
 
 The list shows "models" starting with the "1200" and includes "Kafer".
 
 What have I missed?...looks too good to be true to me...maybe I'm just
 getting old and jaded tho.
 
 https://erwin.volkswagen.de/erWinVW/
 
 Cheers, dave
