From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Nov 2004 17:48:48 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] KONI Shock Group Buy - UPDATE

Good news - we just hit the 15 set minimum order required to go ahead with
the Koni shock group buy!  So it's definitely on!

The deadline is Sunday night, so if you want "in" on this deal, be sure to
place your order right away. I will try to order a few spare pairs for
stragglers, but can't make any promises as to price or availability of
those. Again, this shock is no longer available from Koni, so this is a
custom run just for us. The only way to be sure to get in on this buy is to
place your order by tomorrow night.

One person asked me if he can make payments toward the balance between now
and then (sort of a "layaway plan"). We're not set up to do it
automatically, but if you want to make payments along the way, you can email
me when you want to make a payment and I can put it through.  Also, to
reiterate, a $25 per pair deposit will be charged right away when you place
your order, with the balance charged the shocks come in (sometime in mid to
late winter). This deposit is NOT refundable, as I cannot cancel the order
once I give it to the factory.  Also the shocks are not returnable once
installed. If returned brand new in boxes within 30 days of receipt, a
restocking fee (10% of purchase price) plus the $25 initial deposit will be
charged, and the balance refunded except for shipping charges.

To see Richard Atwell's review of these shocks, that started this whole
thing, go to <http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Koni.html>.

To order these shocks, see the copy of my original post, below.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT



---- Beginning Forwarded Message ------

To All:

Richard Atwell has asked me to take over the Koni shock group buy that had
been mentioned on the list about a month ago. This is because I was able to
work out a better price than Koni had quoted him, by adding a large number
of Vanagon and Splitty shocks to the order, thereby "sweetening the deal"
for Koni.  (If anyone needs a good deal on Splitty or Vanagon Koni's, pmail
me.)  Also because I can take credit cards and am already set up to handle
shipping.

Here's where we stand.

To recap, Richard had put Koni's on the rear of his Bus and was exuberant
about their performance. These shocks are user adjustable upon installation,
allowing you to "dial in" the ride to your taste, and also readjust them
later to compensate for wear. They carry a lifetime factory warranty. After
speaking to Koni at length at the recent industry show in Vegas, I have to
admit that I too walked away very impressed with the technology that goes
into this shock.

After his positive experience with Koni's on the rear of his bus, Richard
wanted Koni's up front. But alas, Koni had discontinued the fronts long ago.
So he contacted Koni to see if they would consider making a special
production run of fronts. This is where the group buy idea began.

The answer is yes, they will revive the Koni front bus shocks on a one-time
basis just for us. But only if we get least 15 firm orders (in additon to
the seven that I already received). The price will be $89.95 per shock if
you order all four shocks (front and rear) or $99.95 per shock if you order
fronts only. Both plus shipping from PA.  I assume that most people will
want all four. Incidentally, the fronts fit '70-79 according to Koni. I'm
honestly not sure why they don't list them as fitting '68-69.

If you would like to get in on this buy, and get what are probably the best
shocks ever offered for your Bus, you will need to confirm BY THIS SUNDAY. I
will require a $25 per pair (or $50 per set of 4) NONREFUNDABLE deposit,
with the balance due when the shocks arrive. The rears will probably arrive
in about 8 weeks, the fronts in something like 12-16 weeks. (This is an
estimate from Koni and is not a precise time.) The reason for the deposit
requirement is that once I give Koni the order I cannot cancel it, so I must
be sure that all orders are firm orders. The balance will not be due until
the shocks are in my hands and on their way to you.  If for any reason Koni
is unable to provide the shocks (which I highly doubt, as they are a very
reputable company and have given us their guarantee), then the deposit would
of course be fully refunded.

To order a full set of front and rear at $89.95 per shock plus shipping, go
to:

<http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=SP4>

To order fronts only at $99.95 per shock plus shipping, go to:

<http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=SP5>

Your credit card will not be charge until Monday. At that time I will inform
the list as to whether we hit our minimum order of 15 pair of fronts or not.
If so, you'll be charged the deposit and your order will be placed with
Koni. If not, your order will be cancelled and no deposit will be charged.
If you ordered rears (which will be available regardless), but we don't get
enough orders to make fronts, you will have the option to keep the rears on
order or cancel them.

Please pmail me if you have any questions or if any of this is unclear.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
