From: "FAUTLEY, Paul (Gillingham)" <Paul.FAUTLEY(-at-)dds.delphiauto.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 3 Nov 2002 22:59:19 +0100 
Subject: Front end questions

Started dismantling the front end of my bus today ready to remove the beam
so that I can restore it.  My bus is a 66, so it has the front sway bar
(think this is what it tends to be called - in the UK we would call it an
anti-roll bar).  I am having trouble removing this.

I couldn't find a reference to this sway bar in the Bentley manual, but in
another manual I had it said to bend the tab of the mounting clip up at the
widest end and then hammer it off.  I managed to bend the tab, but have not
managed to move the clip at all.  I am trying to move it the correct way -
anyone got any ideas on how to remove them?

Next question is about the torsion leaves - should I remove the grease from
them or just bag them up as they are whilst the beam is powdercoated?

Powdercoating - whilst looking in the archives I spotted a handy tip about
using two long pieces of thread all to hold rubber and wood at either end to
prevent the sand going into the torsion tubes.  What should I do about the
grease nipples?

Last question now - I disconnected the link that goes from the steering box
to the swivel pin at the swivel pin end.   However the link has a lot of
side to side movement - I can push it into and pull out from the steering
box quite a distance - is this normal?

Whilst on the subject I am glad I decided to take it apart - one of the link
pins was so badly worn I was surprised there wasn't more movement than there
was.  Old grease had clogged up I think and was preventing it from being
greased at all.  Taking it apart was one of the messiest jobs I have ever
done - many years of greasing makes lots of mess.  Took me 45 mins to clean
all my tools!

Thanks
Paul
