Date: Wed, 6 Feb 2002 11:50:51 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Turning a padded dash into a painted metal one

Hello List,

In case any of you have ever thought of striping off
the vinyl padding from your dash board and painting
it, I want to let you know that it is possible if you
have a welder and minimal welding and body-work
skills. After removing all of the bolts and screws
that I could find that held the dash board in, I
removed all the knobs from the dash leaving them
connected to the wires. I also found that by
disconnecting the speedo and heat/fresh air cables, I
was able to maneuver the instrument panel and remove
the dash with out removing that panel. 

Once all of the padding is removed from the dash,
there are a few areas that will need medal patches.
Using an angle grinder with a cutting wheel,I cut some
metal patches to fit behind these areas, screwed them
to the dash and welded them in from the front side.
After grinding down and cleaning all of the welded
areas, I filled them with a little body filler. These
areas can easily be sanded with a jitter-bug sander or
any kind of palm sander. There are a few holes that
you can actually weld up with out using a metal patch.


All in all, It turned out really well. My dash is
primed and is waiting to be water sanded and painted.
It really is not as hard as it sounds. It only took me
about a week of spare time to do the welding and body
work. If any one was wondering, the padding on my dash
was beyond repair to begin with, else i would have
left it original.

P.S. If you plan to do this, I would unbolt the top of
the dash from the front and remove the impact rubber
strip. It just makes it easier. Good Luck!

David Kelly
From Wilmington, North Carolina

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Send FREE Valentine eCards with Yahoo! Greetings!
http://greetings.yahoo.com
