Date: Sat, 10 Mar 2007 10:11:14 -0800
From: Volks-Web Support <support(-at-)volks-web.com>
To: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Keeping mold at bay on a bay :-)

Courtney said:

" Yes, that's a bummer.  :-(   When the mold grabs hold it's basically
wipe EVERYTHING down with 1 oz bleach to 9 oz water. The guy at
HomeDepot told me to save my money, as the bleach solution was just as
good as all the fancy chemistry they purport to sell as a killer. If you
read the labels, most say sodium hypochlorite or a close cousin, which
is really just bleach. You have a great idea with a dehumidifier, but I
am beginning to realize the real ticket is keeping it heated with a
small cermaic heater. I have an unheated garage that started to grow
mold, and when I put a ceramic heater in it, and cleaned up the mold, it
didn't come back. I kept it at about 60 deg. and so far, no more mold."


Well, up here, a heater just doesn't do the job.  I have a small ceramic
I used, but it just heated up the wet air - which the mold loved.

Bleach - the problem is you really don't want to use it on upholstery,
etc.  The better ticket there is hydrogen peroxide - I plan to buy a
boatload to clean the bus with when I do the big sanitation.  Also,
working with bleach is just hell on my mucus membranes.  I can feel it
in my lungs - can't be good.  While peroxide doesn't seem to have any
nasty odors to infiltrate my tender bod.

I'm gonna buy a new mask/filter for the job, too.  Between the mold
spores and the cleaners, better safe than sorry.

All in all, a dehumidifier seems to be the only way to really remove the
moisture.  And I figure it's probably cheaper in the longer run on
electricity - run it in the bus to dry it periodically, rather than
attempt to keep a larger space up to a particular temp.  And warmer air
holds more moisture - I'm thinking that long term you're just
exacerbating the problem.

Teri
