From: "James Treanor" <jtreanor10(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 13 Mar 2007 07:30:40 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] oil leaks in upright bus engine

The bottom line is: I'd like to fix the pushrod tube leaks without pulling 
the heads.

Greg, pull the heads.  In fact, split the case.  Get a gasket set with 
flywheel seal, non hardening sealer (non-silicone), a long brass drift, and 
a tube of Locktite sleeve and bushing retainer.  If the pistons look worn a 
new set is only 80 bucks.  Clean, clean, clean.  Inspect for cracks, between 
cylinder openings, from studs to openings, in front of #3 cylinder, ect.  
When taking apart a motor, I get a cardboard box and mark it pully on one 
end, flywheel on the other.  As parts come off I arrange them in the box the 
way they came off the motor.  Poke holes in the sides of the box to put the 
pushrod tubes in order that they were in the engine, case end inside the 
box, rocker end pointing out.  Use the brass drift to get the wrist pins 
out.  Split the case leaving everything inside (except the lifters  in the 
right half of the case, they will fall out.  Keep them in the correct order. 
  Locktite goes on the cleaned case parting line, and put back together.  
Check the heads by propping them so the intake ports are up and pour some 
gas in the ports.  A little seeping is ok, you will have to lap the valves.  
No leaking is great, but I would still lap the valves.  Gas pouring out past 
the valves is not good, if so, I'll dig thru my headpile and find you a 
replacement. The valvespring tool should be availble to rent from your local 
FLAPS.  Also, if your pushrod tubes look beat up, I can send you some of 
them too.  When putting the pistons back on, 1 and 3 first (it's easier), 
GET SOME FULL CIRCLE WRIST PIN RETAINERS, and make sure you have plenty of 
light when installing them.  Tidy up the tins, fresh coat of flat or semi 
black, chase the tinscrew holes with a tap,  put every thing back, yada yada 
yada, have frosty beverage ready for victory celebration when you start it.  
Its easy and fun!

OK, option B.  You stilll have to pull the heads, but just to replace 
pushrod tube seals.  Replace all gaskets and main seal.  Yada yada, frosty 
beverage, you get the idea.



JT
Beaufort, SC

Running: 1. 62 404.1 Kompressor 2. 58 VW panel 3. 66 sedan 4. 77 transporter 
4. 77 westie

Resting: 1. 71 transporter 2. 71 single cab 3. 75 Westie 4. 61 doublecab 5. 
63 doublecab 6.67 samba 7. 62 Willys wagon

http://www.fortunecity.com/silverstone/garage/7/

_________________________________________________________________
With tax season right around the corner, make sure to follow these few 
simple tips. 
http://articles.moneycentral.msn.com/Taxes/PreparationTips/PreparationTips.aspx?icid=HMFebtagline
