From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 4 Apr 2010 20:51:51 -0400
Subject: lights, locks & more lights...

Hey Guys,

 

Well the weather is great, and I love driving my bus this time of year, not
too hot or too cold, and no salt on the ground. It is perfect for driving
with the windows open.

 

This weekend I did spend a little time on my '69 single cab.

 

-I did the H4 upgrade on the lights.

--When I removed the trim ring on the passenger side, a ton of water poured
out. No water on driver's side. Apparently the water was stuck behind the
trim ring. I noticed that there is no gasket on these lights, except the
gasket that comes with the bulb enclosure. I.e. on my '65 there is a gasket
between the trim ring and the body. Is my Singlecab supposed to have those
as well? Or any type of gasket/seals on the headlight? The Bentley mentions
a seal, but does not show one in their photo. Looking at the assembly, if I
put a seal at the body/trim ring connection there is still a pretty big gap
between this and the bulb, basically it looks like water is supposed to
travel through this whole thing, and drain out the bottom. The only seal is
the one that comes with the H4 package. Suggestions/directions.appreciated.

 

-I also hooked up a ground to my back-up lights. A few weeks ago someone
told me that one of the backup lights was not working, I figured it was just
a bulb. But that didn't help. So I looked inside the engine compartment, and
saw a little tab on the back of the bulb holder. I put a new ground wire on
both of them, and they worked. Kind of weird, as they used to work without
this ground, I guess they were ground through the body of the bulb holder,
and now they have just gotten dirty or something there. 

 

-I got some locks for my treasure chest doors. Now I can lock my treasure
chest area, which makes me feel a bit better about leaving anything in
there. I had some random parts from the PO, one was a broken exterior trim
piece for the lock, and a seal for between the two. I only had one seal, so
I took an  old front door handle seal, and cut it to fit. It looks ok. I
also had some rear hatch striker wedges, for my '65. I bought extra by
mistake. These fit the door striker plates for the treasure chest area. I
installed them. A little adjustment, and they now lock. Now I want to try to
get the all the doors to work on the same key. See pics here:

 

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=664393

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=664394

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/album_page.php?pic_id=664392

 

-The turn signal light on dash pod stopped flashing a few weeks ago(I think
when I took the steering column apart to replace the steering coupler) I
noticed that my rear turn signals do not work, they light up when I turn on
the lights, but do not flash when I use the turn signal. The light on the
dash pod also does not light up. The front turn signals work fine. Any
suggestions on how to begin trouble shooting this?

 

-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi
