Date: Mon, 22 Sep 2008 10:08:36 -0400
From: Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Ahlgrim, Kevin" <kahlgrim(-at-)iusb.edu>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Found a mouse and nest in my 78 Riveria

Mice, gotta hate 'em.  To live in you bus they need a way in/out to get 
water or bring in seeds. In our case they got in through the rust out at 
the bottom of the bus behind the kick panel, visible only when the front 
pedal assembly cover is removed from below.  I foamed it up.  They can 
get into the engine compartment and go into the heat ductwork if it is 
not tight.  Make sure there is NO food (including foil packages like 
cocoa) in the bus when not camping. Still they will chew paper, foam, 
cloth, and wiring.
    I live by  woods and these have been a problem in the air filter 
housing (put course screening over the inlet!) of both our minivan and 
the bus; they also got into the blower assembly of our Subaru, making it 
smell real nice when the heat/AC is turned on.   Favorite spots for 
nesting inside the bus are the cavities in the wall behind the sink 
cabinet, above the headliner (where fiber glass is), the rear door hatch 
gap behind that panel, and particularly behind the front kick panel. 
They chewed our popotop canvas when the top was down and made a nest 
beside the mattress.  Make sure to line the sides up there with 
mothballs.  We also had good luck there with dryer softener sheets 
generously stuffed all around.
