From: "Gervais, Pierre" <PGervais(-at-)BR.Kruger.com>
To: 'Phil Cappellini' <philcappellini(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 15 Apr 2005 11:00:53 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Chunks of Aluminum

If I was you, I would leave the chuncks where they are.  They cannot reach
and hurt oil system.  The question is: were those particles there when you
did the previous oil changes and did not notice them or they just happened
since last oil change ?

You may have something starting going bad in the engine.  Did you clean the
other cover (the one with the two small bolts) ?  Did you find a lot of grey
"paste" in the bottom covers ?  If yes, it is possible something is about to
disintegrate or being ground in the engine.  If not, I would'nt worry too
much.

It can happened that a previous owner had a piston failure and that he just
did a top end rebuilt not opening and cleaning the engine case.  When such a
failure happens, it is the good practice to completely tear down the engine
to clean every oil gallery and even replace the oil cooler to make sure to
flush any major particle which could have reach there and can reach
lubrication end points (when oil filter is not able to take the full flow
because of oil viscosity or clogging and then the by-pass valve opens).  It
can also be very bad to the hydraulic lifters which can see their piston
seized by particles (which is not probably the case for a 1700 normally of
mechanical type lifters).

BusBosss Pierre




Objet : [T2] Chunks of Aluminum


Hello,

I have had my current 1700 motor for about 1 year. I have been doing regular

oil changes but the other day I discovered several pebble size pieces of 
aluminum in the oil  screen. Then I saw a couple more where the screen goes.

I could not pull them out.

I was told that at one time perhaps a piston may have blown and who ever 
fixed it did not take out all of the pieces. If this is true? and How do I 
get out the rest of these small pieces?

Thanks.
