To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2003 10:10:06 -0500
Subject: How could I have missed that? ...Was When Temp Sensor II goes

So in my perplexing battle to get my 78' Westy running again after simply
sitting for 3 weeks I found and fixed the most obvious problem that I had
missed in earlier trials. For those who don't recall the story goes like
this. I drove Possum about 4 weeks ago on a great camping trip with a lot
of dirt roads/fire trails/logging roads etc. Bus ran great up and down some
pretty steep grades then highway for the rest of the way home. Get home
park and unpack. Bus sits for 3 weeks then when I go to start it wont hold
an idle or keep running unless I constantly pump the throttle. First I
check all of my grounds. Then I look for a vacuum leak. Don't see any
busted hoses or loose stuff so I go through the plugs, fine, compression,
good, set valves, fine, check ignition, fine, troubleshoot FI, double relay
checks out, temp sensor I fine, temp sensor II resistance a little low but
fine, cold start, fine, aux air valve fine. No fuel pressure gauge (
admonished by list for not having that tool). Drain tank, maybe moisture or
contamination from pranksters, replace fuel filter, fine, needed to be
changed anyway. Get fuel pressure gauge, undo connection port on fuel rail,
notice small red plastic block off plug laying on cylinder tin near intake
manifold? Hmm better get that out of there so it doesnt melt when the
engine get hot... Hmm where did that come from anyway????

When I built this motor I ditched the EGR valve and related junk. I made a
metal plate and gasket to cover the hole in the plenum and I used a small
red plastic cap ( came with a rebuilt power steering pump and prevented
dirt from getting in the pump during shipping) in the S hose to the
throttle body. Massive vacuum leak found! Plug reinstalled, glue used to
seal in place. Reach in from driver's side and start bus, no throttle. Back
to life, Possum runs fine.  Lesson learned? Always triple check the
obvious! At least now I know all of the other systems are in good order. I
did check my vacuum at idle and think it should be better so next step is
to go through and clamp all of those hoses and test for some smaller leaks
now that she runs again and will idle nicely.

BTW good vacuum at idle should be in the neighborhood of 15" right?



Theodore Reshetiloff
78' Westy Possum
treshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com




***********************************************************************************************************************

The information in this e-mail and any attachments may be privileged and
confidential.  If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the
sender and do not disclose the contents or make copies.  When addressed to
our clients, any opinions or advice contained in this email or any
attachments are subject to the terms and conditions of the Cambridge
Associates client engagement agreement.

***********************************************************************************************************************
