From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "Van Heyst, Bob" <Bob(-at-)bbt4vw.com>, "Niedernhofer, Tom & Shelley"
Date: Mon, 27 Feb 2012 11:44:21 -0600
Subject: The "Flood Bus" is a star...

Hi all,

For those of you who have seen the "U-Boat" or "Flood Bus" over the years, or
read about its rescue and long resurection over the years in my "Transporter
Talk" column in Hot VWs, here is a little update.  I initially found and
purchased this 19,000 mile 1966 Sundial Camper conversion back around 1996, my
buddy Tom Niedernhofer and I choose to co-own her and re-furbish her back to
health.  This Camper earned her name when she survived about two weeks
completely underwater in the 1995 mega-flood of the Mississippi River, chained
to a tree so she wouldn't float away.

Long story short, Tom, who accomplished most of the work while this '66 Camper
lived in his garage, finished off a loooong restoration with an incredible
redo of the interior and The "Flood Bus" (now with only 31,000 miles on her
odometer) suddenly found a new home in Bob Van Heyst's collection at the BBT
shop in Belgium.  But just before it rolled into its container for the long
boat ride from the S.F. Bay area to Belgium, I got to drive it during the last
Kelley Park Vintage Meet weekend (April 2011) over to a nearby park for a
calendar photoshoot for photographer Ron Kimball.

You can see the results yourself if you snag a copy of "Volkswagen Bus 2012"
wherever calendars are sold.  This large calender features only Split-Buses.
Check out the "U-Boat" featured for the month of April 2012.  Again,
congratulations to Tom for all his awesome talents and efforts, to Bob at BBT,
and to its' newest owner who if I heard right now has the "Flood Bus" enjoying
the easy life down in the south of France?  Some Buses have all the luck...

Bill Bowman
