Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2001 12:46:16 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>,  <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: A cautionary tale from a local paper

here's an article I found in my Dad's local paper.  I snipped the non-bus
bits, but it is proof that good karma can come in packages other than
buses!

George Lyle

Article follows:
============================

Cadillac angel brings comfort to Carson cars

BY KIT MILLER  For the (Carson City) Nevada Appeal

I met an angel in the 7-11 parking lot. She drove a yellow Cadillac.
Here's what happened.  It was a hot day in the Zephyr City and I climbed
into my old VW van to take it for a smog check.

That's when I ran smack into the Car Day from Hell.

I turned the key on the VW - nothing. My battery was dead and my jumper
cables gone.  I borrowed some from the nice lady next door and after a
couple of minor shocks I was off.

The van miraculously passed inspection on the first try.  And the DMV gave
me shiny new plates.  Things were looking up.

On the way home I stopped at 7-1l, to fill 'er up. I put the pump on
automatic and whistled a jaunty tune.  The guy in the truck next to me
interrupted my reverie by observing, "It looks like you're spilling some
gas."

Gasoline was spurting from the tank with the rigor of a golf course
sprinkler system.  A rather large lake had formed under the VW. I
shrieked, then composed myself, peering studiously under the car as if I
could figure out what was going on.  The nice man peered under too and
explained that this was normal for VW vans - he knew cause his father has
two of them and they routinely behave this way.

"Still, I wouldn't start up your car for at least 15 or 20 minutes, until
it evaporates.  Remember that guy who filled up at this very gas pump last
year?  The gas cans were inside his van and static electricity in the
carpet sparked an explosion.  Blew up the  pump and the van. The guy was
only a little burned, but they had to shut down the gas station."

"Oh," I said meekly. "Thanks for the tip."  Visualizing my car as molten
metal and myself as a little pile of ash, I heeded his advice.  I washed
the whole VW with one of those little squeegies, then called to check on
my station wagon, which was in Sick Bay.

<station wagon bit snipped>

I hung up and turned back  to the VW.  Sure enough, that good old Nevada
air had dried up the gas puddle.  I decided to move the van before
starting it.

That's when the angel in the yellow Cadillac came pealing up.

"Need a hand?" she yelled.  "Let's push it over here and take a look'"

"Good thing you didn't start it," she noted.  "Guy  here last year blew
this place up with a little spark caused by static electricity.  Whoa!
Check it out!  Looks like you still have a leak."

The angel stuck her head under the van, heed-less of the dirty asphalt on
her mane of blond hair.  Gas was again dripping from the tank.  "Want me
to tow ya somewhere?"  She opened up the back of the Caddie (filled with
golf clubs) and hauled out a tow rope.  "I can tow anything with this
car!"

After an only slightly hair-raising ride, during which the angel was
compelled to make a rather un-angelic gesture at an impatient trucker, we
arrived at my friendly VW mechanic.

The angel said, "Ya want a ride somewhere? I'll take you wherever you need
to go."

No, I assured her, my family would come get me. And as suddenly as she had
appeared, she was gone in a puff of exhaust.

"Good thing ya didn't start it," the mechanic told me.  "Remember that guy
who blew up his car at that very same gas station last year?  Why, he... "

But I had stopped listening. I was wondering whose life the Carson City
angel would touch next.


