From: David McCracken <folkswaggin(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Tue, 1 May 2012 20:49:00 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1970 VW type 2 Westfalia camper Sportsmobile for sale

I have to move my lovely Norbert.  Im in a desperate need of cash
flow. I welcome any comments, questions or suggestions.  Please also
send email response privately to folkswaggin(-at-)gmail.com.  Thanks!



1970 Westfalia Sportsmobile Rebuilt engine xtras   Asking: $5000

1970 Type 2 Westfalia camper. Sportsmobile top. < 700 miles on rebuilt
engine. Original exterior tent in GC & extras + tools included.
Interior and mechinally in very good condition.

Im the 3rd owner. 1st owner bought new in 1970 and sold in mid 2000's.
I have all his service receipts, research papers & original sales
receipts. He appeared to love, service and document the bus as well as
he could. 2nd owner (friend of mine) bought & used bus for 2 years for
local family camping until some apparent engine trouble occurred,
where then the bus was garaged for 2 years until I picked her up 3
years ago and began an extensive restoration/obsession. I hoped to
complete the restoration but gotta let her go due to bills, life and
all that. Her name is Norbert.

Have most all service receipts beginning with orig. sales document.

Clean title. Runs well. Rebuilt engine. Losta work done. Fair amount
of body rust.

odometer reads 32697

Interior:
original and good condition. Ice box was converted to shelves/drawers.
Original curtains still on hand. We made new curtains and fashioned
custom curtain ties out of leather and sea shells. Includes original
rear door snap-in screen & original front windshield snap-in curtain
as well as front seat cot. Also included are 2 front door window
screens and sliding door screen (after market?). Original exterior
side tent is included with tent poles and stakes in their bags all in
great shape. Very rarely used. Interior wood paneling and naugahide is
in good shape. Included are a pair of unused NOS front door panels
still packaged. Also included are Brazilian front door window seals
(outer scraper). I installed new kick panels under front dash with
replacement ABS panels. Cleaned up a lot of electrical additions and
garbage getting back to stock. No radio.

For some pictures during my initial restoration see:
https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.392609116264.203713.522091264&type=3&l=129ad45e58

Mechinically
Upon first towing the bus to NC I had a full tune up, new tires and
full brake job done by Monkey Nut in Charlotte NC. have all receipts.
see their gallery at:
http://monkeynutvw.com/gallery/main.php?g2_itemId=9777

Drove her for a year short distances but the engine blew (see pics on
the facebook link) and I began to replace the engine with a rebuilt
1500. I took a lot of time, love and actually blew out my back doing
it. She now runs great. Doesn't leak a drop of oil. New muffler. Carb
rebuilt. Replaced fuel line from gas tank. Had gas tank cleaned.

There was a lot of play in steering when I got her. I replaced the
drag link and play was reduced greatly. Had brake job done (see monkey
note pics). I recently replaced front wheel cylinders and S shaped
brake line in front pass side and find it still pulls to the drivers
side a bit.

Exterior
Additions include Sportsmobile top - 1st owner replacing the Westfalia
hinged top with Sportmobile top (have sales receipts) and the 2 custom
accompanying interior lights and their armrests installed on front
doors (2 NOS stock door panels are included). Side step installed in
side jack mounts. 4 new tires - heavy duty truck tires. General
Grabber AT 27 x 8.50 R 14. Stock spare tire mounted on nose with
custom wheel cover. 2 new front turn signal marker lenses. 2 new rear
side marker lenses. Squirted a bit of silicone on rust holes around
rusty window seams to stop any leaking. Under carriage looks clean.
Body has several areas of considerable rust. Battery tray areas,
passenger door and around some window seams. Pictures should
accurately portray. I love her but gotta let her go.

Includes the Bentley manual and the 19th edition of the John Muir How
to keep your VW alive book as well as some tools (specialized VW tools
as well as if offer is right a 2.5 ton hydraulic jack and jack
stands). Also can include original 1600 engine. A blown piston (see FB
pics). Extra Solex Pict 1 carb & assorted goodies. Bus is near
Greensboro NC. I tour with a national band for a living and am gone
(or actually Im all sorts of places) several days most every week. Be
happy to answer any questions or meet up.

Many photos uploaded today to:

https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10150856171891265.474642.522091264&type=1&l=69bfc5d56a


David McCracken
