Date: Mon, 07 May 2012 09:25:02 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Good way to provide multiple lines to 12v switched

I'd not tap into any of the factory fuse panel circuits. They are 
sometimes marginal due to age all by themselves.

Do this: buy enough heavy gauge wire to run from the battery out back to 
the front. Add an inline fuse within the first 12 inches or so. Run the 
wire under the bus along the factory wiring. Zip tie or wrap the 
original wiring and your new wire. Don't rely on black vinyl tape - it 
dries out and releases over time when used outside. You want some wire 
loom or black zip ties. In my experience the white zip ties get brittle 
with age. UV exposure???

Look at the heaviest stock wiring under the dash and buy something at 
least that size. Buy copper stranded wiring - not solid single strand 
wire and not aluminium wire. A good auto parts store should have some. A 
good car stereo installer will have the right stuff too and you can 
probably source the rest of the stuff I call out below. They also have 
the potential to be expensive so shop around - you don't gold plated 
connections. ;)

Run this new wire to a new terminal block up front. Or a new fuse panel. 
RV and boat stores have these generic terminal blocks or fuse blocks. So 
should any decent auto parts stores. So should a stereo installer.

If the power needs to be switched then you can run it through a 30 amp 
generic Radio Shack 12V relay and have the relay switch on and off via 
some hot wire on the original VW fuse block that goes hot when you turn 
the key on. I've heard of guys using the wire coming out of the key 
switch that turns on the "key in the ignition" buzzer. That'll make the 
relay turn on any time there is a key or key like item in the ignition 
switch.

I'd use quality crimp connectors with a good crimper and some shrink 
tubing over the ends of the crimp connectors. It will stiffen up the 
wire (so it doesn't flex so much it breaks off at the connector like 
VW's vintage connectors) and keep dirt out a little.

I have no idea what the cost of all this will be - but I'd guess it 
would be something south of $50. Cheaper than paying anyone for certain 
and it will outlast the vehicle.

Here is a proper crimper: http://www.mytoolstore.com/klein/1006.jpg

I have no connection to them, just want to use their picture.

These make marginal crimps in my opinion:

http://www.mytoolstore.com/klein/1001.jpg

I have a stripper like this: http://www.mytoolstore.com/klein/k1210.jpg

Here is a typical 12V relay:

http://www.allelectronics.com/make-a-store/item/RLY-351/12V-SPDT-30-AMP-AUTOMOTIVE-RELAY/-/1.html

http://www.fjrtech.com/getdbitem.cfm?item=25

There is an article laying it out pretty good. Right wire, relay, 
terminal strip, etc.

Chris
