Date: Mon, 23 Dec 2002 17:19:48 -0500 (EST)
From: John David Anderson <janders1(-at-)mix.wvu.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FS: NPR 96mm 2.0 liter P&C set

Well this set is "NEARLY NOS."  These are a set of REAL NPR Japanese 
96.0mm bore pistons and cylinders in pin height for 2.0 stroke, they 
build a 2055cc engine on stock case and heads.  These are NOT the 
Taiwanese junk that Stephens was selling and I presume Autobile Atlanta 
is now selling (for over $400 a set.)  I find that all sort of 
hillarious as of course 15 years ago Japanese NPR was considered of 
lower quality compared to German, you don't know what you've got until 
its gone, gone, gone.  Regardless these are of quality not availble 
since the early 90's.  These have pretty small dishes BTW and I don't 
know but would guess they were about a 8-8.5:1 set or so, looking in 
some old VW&Porsche's might tell.

Anyway the story on this set is the original owner was selling em on 
ebay, as "NOS but used about 150 miles."  I emailed him for pics and 
the story and story is that he put them in his 914, drove it about 150 
miles, it got totalled (front end) and he pulled the engine.  
Eventually sold the 2.0 heads but kept these for the future as he had 
payed $500 for the set back in the 80's from Automotion.  So the pics 
showed a pretty much as new set of P&C's, I mean no cylinder rust, 
hardly any carbon on the pistons, sides and skirts all simply bright 
new shiny aluminum.  I believed him, I got outbid and forgot about it.  
A few weeks later guy who bought em emails me up and says, hey I needed 
a set in 1.8 pin height and can't use these, you want em for what you 
bid, and I bought em.  Came in and you really can't tell these things 
were ever used, at all.  They all measure perfectly as well, round down 
to 0.0005 or less and piston to wall clearances on the order of 
0.0015".  I can't imagine the rings had even seated yet.  Thing is that 
somewhere along the way some idiot in pulling them out had knicked the 
end of a 2nd ring, I'm guessing the guy I bought em from.  Total Seal 
2nd sets are availble from Total Seal for $65 in this bore and 
thickness however and frankly that was what I was going to do, run the 
1st and 3rd's as is and use a set of Total Seal 2nds.

Anyway asking $350 obo, will take pics but these are damn hard to tell 
from new.  They would of course be a perfect complement to that set of 
NOS 1.7 heads I'm selling, which is what I intended all along.  I might 
consider a "batch price" of say $850 firm for the heads and P&C's.  
Build an "as new" killer 2055.  They are more suited for a 914 but 
would live alright in a Bus using premium gas or you could always use 
bottom spacers to lower CR though it would be smarter to machine in 
larger dishes to keep a "zero deck" quench head design.  The pistons 
are meaty enough to do so.

John
janders1(-at-)mix.wvu.edu
