Date: Tue, 24 Nov 2009 14:37:25 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Gary Gibson <meckie1(-at-)mindspring.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] tire size

An old topic, but with the extreme width bandwidth these days I don't mind
revisiting.
 
Gary the Yoko 356 are sort of good tires.  They wear like iron, but are
highway rib with the lack of handling that implies.  Oddly in that way, they
are like bias plies were and for the original posters '66 appropriate (sort
of) in look, and certainly will handle better than what was on it in '66.  On
a vanagon, I've had em, several vans, and run em 3 season, but they do get
dicey in extreme standing wet, I've had to pull over (and I never pull over)
in torrential downpours.  Oddly an Agillis is no better IMHO (though lots of
people like em) and I'm not sure if they still make the 185R14 anyway (TR
doesn't show it.)  Now the original conti Vanco had some real tread, but I've
gotten very poor wear from my last set (on a EV though, so who knows, apples
to oranges FWD to RWD) and the Vanco2 looks again as a ribbed summer tire,
price is right though from TireRack.  I've never met a Nokian tire that wasn't
good year round and didn't give good service
 life, even running winter Hakkas year round though, so that would be my
vote.  I have a set of their "year round" (don't recall which they are) tires
on my Suburban right now, and I'm still driving em after the first couple of
snows here in AK as I've been too lazy to put on my studs.
 
John

--- On Tue, 11/24/09, Gary Gibson <meckie1(-at-)mindspring.com> wrote:


good stuff.  Anyone have experience with these tires?  Tire Rack sells
Yokohama 185 R 14 D tires for $82.  These would fit great and have a good
safety factor for load.  I don't know how well they handle or wear....
