From: "The Bus Depot, Inc." <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Nov 2001 09:11:35 -0500
Subject: BIG news - NEW Front Axle Beams!!!

This is big news.

For years, busses here on the east coast have been relegated to the junkyard
because their front axles were rusted, making them "unsafe at any speed" as
Ralph Nader might have said.  Axle beam rust, unless caught early, is a
serious and well known safety hazard on busses. Often by the time it is
noticed, it's too far-gone to be safely or economically welded.  If you
haven't checked your beam thoroughly (or haven't done it recently), go out
and do it now. This is a chronic problem that has sent dozens of busses in
my area alone to the boneyard.

Years ago, VW discontinued new bus axle beams (not that anyone was buying
them anyway, at $1500!).  Furthermore, the supply of good used beams is
starting to dry up. On the East Coast, it's gotten to the point that most
beams found in junkyards are simply too rusty to use. And several European
companies have been picking many of the West Coast junkyards clean,
exporting the beams back to Europe where they're worth big bucks. The result
has been very high prices, decreasing availability, and decreasing quality
on used beams.  Frequently this has sent busses to junkyards that could
otherwise have been saved.

When I was recently offered a supply of brand new Volkswagen (Brazil) '72-79
axle beams at a great price, I was skeptical at first, because it was almost
too good to believe after all these years of unavailability. I remember a
few years ago when a stash of '50-67 steering boxes was found, and sold to
just about every VW parts retailer in the U.S., only to be recalled some
time later when it turned out that they were all Brazilian spec and didn't
fit German made busses. So I proceeded with a bit of caution on this one.
Even though the supplier assured me without any doubt that these were the
correct German/U.S. spec beams (even carrying the same part number as the
original German stock), I also insisted that they physically compare one
side-by-side with a used German beam before I committed. Well, they have now
confirmed that the measurements are the same.  So it seems we have found the
holy grail  These are complete, bare front axles, genuine Volksewagen stock,
same as sold for $1500 by VW in the U.S. when they last had them. (Sorry,
they fit only '72-up. To fit one to a '68-71 you'd have to do a lot of
part-swapping with a post-71 donor bus.)

The best news is the price. I can offer the first 4 units to listmembers for
$299.95 (first come, first serve).  After that, it will be $349.95. This is
less than many junkyards have been charging for used beams.  I have several
units available now for immediate shipment, but (while I have high hopes) I
cannot yet be sure of uninterrupted supply in the future.

Part number 211 401 061N  .  Order toll-free at 1-866-BUS-DEPOT or via the
website.  Please note that if you order this via the website, you must
specify in the comments section that you're a listmember to get the special
price (assuming that you order early enough to qualify). Also an additional
$12 will be added to the shipping fee calculated by the website due to the
weight of this item.  Neither this nor the special listmember price will be
reflected in your shopping cart but will be adjusted prior to shipping.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  (215) 234-VWVW
  www.busdepot.com

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders Only: 1-866-BUS-DEPOT

