Date: Fri, 1 Oct 2004 16:49:54 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re:  84 vanagon?

http://www.vanagon.com/problems/

http://www.busdepot.com/links.jsp

Here a few links to read.  My experience has been
to look for the following:

1.  Leaking heads.  Leaking HEADS.  LEAKING
HEADS!!!!  Note that the leaking isn't
necessarily going to be evident by looking under
the vehicle.  Look for signs of leakeage (left
over coolant etc.) and look for problems (low
level or bubbling) in the coolant reservoir.  If
it appears coolant was recently added (very fresh
color), beware.   This is a VERY expensive fix,
like as expensive as an entire aircooled engine. 
Adjust price accordingly.   Wasserleakers seem to
need new head gaskets (and usually heads due to
pitting) as often as every 30,000 miles.  Do a
search of waterboxer and wasserboxer heads and
see all the links.  

2.  Coolant hoses- UGH.  There are about 150,000
or so.  Actually around 20.  Vanagain or busdepot
has them but they will more than likely be
original on your vanagon... because they cost an
arm and a leg.  Actually more like arms and two
legs.  Add this into the cost if they are not new
or nearly new.  Note:  you'll need to be under
the bus on you back to see many of the hoses.  On
the 84 there is also a little plastic thingy in
the middle of the front (front means toward the
front bumper) of the engine compartment.  High
failure and hard to find at one point.  BD may
have them now.

3.  More analog FI- just like the late busses...
only worse.  There were some special problems. 
Search the vanagon.com archives for "vanagon
syndrome."  There are some alleged fixes,
involving soldering to the main harness,
practicing voodoo, and fabricating "boehler
tools" and other such nonsense.  Since a single
carb is slightly beyond the limits of my
mechanical capability, I ended paying people $50
an hour to pretend to fix my FI.  YMMV.  Sensors-
especially the temp sensors are easy fixes but
still a little pricey.  
 
4.  Sliding door handles are made of used soda
can tabs or perhaps paper mache.  Easy fix,
moderately expensive, but real darn irritating. 
Ditto for the mirrors.  

4.  Rear heater coolers all leak. Look for
coolant under the rear seat.  

5.  Fans for that grand heater (and the fan
switches) are usually bad.  This will involve
removing almost all the dash to replace.  It was
also a $100 part.  In my experience, if one
spends the time 

6.  Exhaust components expensive, some are
difficult to find.  

6.  ALL vanagon parts are very expensive, expect
the bumper end caps.  They are cheap.  

There are good points however.  The vanagon is
much larger and rides like a Lexus compared to a
bus.  WAY more comfortable.  I mean WAY, WAY
better ride.  Lots more torque and decent,
especially if you're used to aircooled engines. 
The later 2.1 is better but had some rod issues
as I recall.  Heat!!! If you can find one with a
working front fan, you will have nice heat.  

Also, in my experience, the automatic is a nice
choice in a vanagon.  The manual has a very weak
3/4 and has a high percentage of failures.  Also,
the vanagon has enough torque to use an autoy.  

Bottom line, check it over very, very thoroughly
and get quotes or prices for parts if your sure
you can do it yourself on all the repairs.  Even
the simple ones, like the heater fan, may astound
you.  










=====
Nemo, the Bus Captain
1970 Westfakia


		
_______________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Declare Yourself - Register online to vote today!
http://vote.yahoo.com
