Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 15:53:41 -0700 (PDT)
From: Matthew Brooke <artntek(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Is the end near? Few VW buses seen at premier

By way of introduction, and to add to the ad-hoc
driver-profiling that's currently going on - I'm 39,
British, a software developer, live in Santa Barbara,
CA, and use my '78 Westy as a daily driver and for
camping (planning a 2-week family trip to N.
California/S. Oregon in mid-August). 

I don't surf (much to the chagrin of my workmates; the
movie "Jaws" put me off the ocean at an early age),
and don't own any Grateful Dead records, but have been
a VW lover all my life (I have a funny B&W photo of
2-year-old me working on my dad's bug in 1968, which I
must put on the web sometime). When I met my now-wife,
she had a 1960 bug, which she soon got me working on -
it was love at first sight (interpret that how you
will). We also have a white '77 super beetle
convertible that we got married in (literally -
drive-thru' wedding in Vegas :-) It needs some TLC,
though (the beetle)

As for the condition of the bus - the paint looks
original (ie very matt/flat green with greasy
fingermarks) and the bodywork is a little rusty around
the rear wheel arches & engine lid (bus is from
Illinois, so rust is not progressing any more in CA).
However, I'm currently repainting the poptop and
putting in a new tent, ready for the trip (hey, gotta
start somewhere ;-). Also replacing the exhaust system
with a 72-74 set of heat exchangers and muffler,
thanks to advice from the Type2.com archives. I'm
secretly hoping this will also solve the running
problems I've been plagued with, which I'm thinking
are due to an exhaust leak (or two)

Good to make your acquaintance!

m
