Date: Thu, 30 May 2002 12:55:20 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: dworkin(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Dworkin and ducks

Sounds like a good idea.  I'd try to have several
dizzies, carbs, cases, etc.  Surely there are a
few around.  If not, we could supplement with a
photo if necessary.  

I would do this sort of thing by having Professor
Dworkin up front and a few cases and dizzies
around in the crowd with some sort of assistants
helping each group.  Estudiantes could be taught
the basics such as gapping the points, changing
points and condensors, setting the timing
statically, and the concepts involved in timing
and vacuum testing.   I personally think that a
large chart or two showing what the strobed
timing marks should do at certain rpms and
conditions (and why) would be beneficial.  

I have a dizzy with me at all times (but its a
spare not a junker) and a type 4 case currently a
long block (heads removed.)  

Setting valves is another basic skill that maybe
should be included in the Duck Clinic.  


Now I know that you want to actually run a few
engines, and that would work if the groups were
small enough.  

=====
Peace and blessings, 
Nemo, the Bus Captain

http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain/index.html
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/ohiovalleytribe/

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! - Official partner of 2002 FIFA World Cup
http://fifaworldcup.yahoo.com
