Date: Mon, 10 Aug 2009 19:21:38 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Corn buses mini trip report

WOW!!!!  those Canadians sure know how to throw a party.....

added a couple extra days to my visit to the wilderness up north so
left Baltimore 8:15AM and drove up thru PA & NY via Rt 15 & 20
spending Tue Night at the Lake Darian state Park just East of Buffalo.

up bright and early Wed and start North,  the poor lady at Canadian
imigration made the mistake of asking me where I was headed, just a
Bus get together, I fortunately had printed out the flyer for Buses of
the Corn and handed it to her.   the look on her face said', "now I've
seen it all" but wished me a good time and I entered Canada and the
long construction project called the QEW highway.  picked up the key
for Greg and easily found the Heber Downs site.
  found a spot and about 7:30 decided to get an early start the next
day.   next thing I know about a half dozen bus pilots arrive to
welcome me and get an early start. soon there was a campfire and all
was good. finally got to bed almost midnight.

Thur took the train into Toronto and played the tourist thing.
got back to Heber Downs about 6 and set up camp for the stay. Frank
was already there and soon we had another half dozen buses and more
firewood.  while we were unloading and setting up camps, Gregs
youngest daughter decided to start the campfire for us,  and a great
fire starter she was indeed. again there was more getting caught up on
busing.  again a late night settling in, but was fun.

Fri things really got going, one bus after the other pulling in every
few minutes. (mostly vanagons, it seems) good food, good fun, and lots
of checking out each others rides.

Sat was the ever fantastic FMBC breakfast burritos. almost nothing
more can be said other than I skipped Lunch no room. the tiedyeing
event produced much fine art. some interesting bus stuff to take home.
  and then the main event!! some of the sweetest best tasting corn I
have ever had, certainly the best North of the Mason/Dixon line....
and more talk and more talk and the awards,  and I won another VW bus,
ok radio controled and about a half meter long. but super cool. seems
I had come the furtherest, just barely beating out Mike Benthin from
New Jersey.

and campfire (Again) and it started raining, first time this event.

Sunday came far too soon, loaded up the old bus and said my goodbyes
and put the van in gear and headed South....about Noon the worst
thunder storm I have ever experienced in many years hit, couldn't
drive and had to wait it out, was so dark in downtown Toronto the
streetlights came on... finally got going (hope everyone still in camp
were battened downed)and reached the Peace bridge where traffic was
backed up well into Canada....took about 45minutes to get back into
the USA and just before the border checkpoint the bus stalls???? did
not want to restart either that or didn't want to leave Canada.
  finally got it restarted and simple welcome home at the border and
on  the way to Lake Darien where I camped again.  had thunderstorms
all night but I was buttoned down nice and snug in my bus...

Monday morning hit the road early at 7:15Am and stopped only for Gas
arriving back in Baltimore at 3:15PM an even 8 hours drive with a huge
traffic jam just 10 miles from home....fortunately I knew the back
roads and didn't lose any time. Maryland is in the middle of a heat
wave with temps almost 100 degrees and my bus was running a bit hotter
the last 100 miles than I would have liked but she ran fine and strong
all the ways (except right turns, long story)

in all a great atta boy for Greg and the gang in Toronto.... a full
report with photos will be posted on Greg's or some other website in a
day or two.

thanks again to the Canadians was a blast!!!

Bob

-
end
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
occasionally a true patriot must defend his country from its' government
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
"They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety deserve Neither liberty nor safety",    Benjamin Franklin
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
   ASCII Ribbon Campaign. . . . . . . . . . . . accessBob
   .NO HTML/PDF/RTF/MIME in e-mail. . . . . . . accessys(-at-)smartnospam.net
   .NO MSWord docs in e-mail . . . .. . . . . . Access Systems, engineers
   .NO attachments in e-mail, .*LINUX powered*. access is a civil right
*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#
THIS message and any attachments are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privileged.  They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
