From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 27 Nov 2003 09:17:48 -0500
Subject: Vacuum Readings continued

Well I got the hose clamps and some carb cleaner in the hopes of locating
and sealing a leaking vacuum hose. Before I got all into it with the hose
clamps I thought I would try and locate a leak. I was getting 12-13" of
vacuum at idle when warmed up. I sprayed around every hose and hose
connection, (fire extinguisher in hand) and found no chnage in idle or
vacuum reading. Then I sprayed around the intake mainfolds where they bolt
up to the heads. On the 3/4 side, in fact right over #4 the idle dropped
noticeably when I sprayed. Looks like I need a new gasket there, tried
snugging up the nuts. Any good ideas on where to get a set of intake
manifold gaskets? Im in northern Va and would prefer a VW FLAPS but not
sure if I can find these gaskets without buying the whole engine set.
Perhaps some local listee has 2 they can part with??? I think I can reuse
the plastic spacer block just need the gasket between the manifold and the
block then the block and the head.

As always TIA,

Ted Reshetiloff
78' Westy Possum



***********************************************************************************************************************

The information in this e-mail and any attachments may be privileged and
confidential.  If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the
sender and do not disclose the contents or make copies.  When addressed to
our clients, any opinions or advice contained in this email or any
attachments are subject to the terms and conditions of the Cambridge
Associates client engagement agreement.

***********************************************************************************************************************
