From: "aircooled chris" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 18 Mar 2003 13:50:42 -0800
Subject: top end update : rebuild?

I can't thank you guys enough for all of the tips and suggestions.

Let me give a quick background on the actual problem :

Oil leaks from the passenger side of the motor. It leaks a *little* from the 
drivers side as well, but an acceptable level.

The leak is an issue because it all drips onto the exhaust manifold on the 
passenger side of the bus. After an hour or less at highway speeds, it 
stinks bad, and doesn't go away even if I try to do something dumb like dump 
water on it, or clean it off with something.

What we checked :

I replaced the pushrod tube seals first. Still leaks, but not from the 
pushrod tube seals, or as much anyway, they do leak a little bit.

Leakdown test?

We put the bus up on the lift, HOSED it down with carburater cleaner, 
started it back up and let it run for a while to see where it was coming 
from. Because some of the oil sucks into the fan, it kinda blows it all over 
the place, but there was definetly oil coming down from the passenger side 
head. This was pretty odd they mentioned, as a place for oil to leak from, 
just not a very common place I guess.

We cleaned it fully again, ran it for 15 minutes, checked it again. Same 
place, coming down from that passenger side head.

He took the valve cover off and tightened the accessable bolts to the head 
(the lower 4 I guess?), which are supposed to be at 80ft pounds, or 
something, and they were all dead on, which was too bad, because that mabe 
meant the oil was leaking because of a loose head at the top, which means 
the motor has to come out to get at it.

This is where we were at when we started to talk about what to do next.

We talked about how we really just *needed* to remove the engine and replace 
that head, or the seal from that head to the motor I guess (lots of details, 
hard to keep them all straight), but I also mentioned the blue smoke at 
startup. This is when he mentioned a possible reiring because blue smoke 
meant blow-by (im fairly sure thats what he said), and with the oil leaking 
a little from the other side as well, maybe maybe, a rebuild now would be 
best.

maybe I should just tell them to do whatever it takes to fix the oil leak 
and leave it at that for now. but I think they wanted a fair amount of money 
just for that. about $700 for the re-sealing that head and reringing it to 
kill the blow-by. (again, i may be confusing a few things here.)

maybe, I should just fix what needs it and leave it at that for now, then 
see what happens. I always want to be the good bus owner and do it myself, 
or make sure its done right so myself and my wife/dog are always safe when 
out travelling, but im not weathy either, this would all be going on the 
danged credit card if I did it, so i dont want to just throw money away 
either.

it would be nice to know another bus owner/friend that knew how to do this 
stuff, who I could pay to help me do it myself.

Christopher
76 westy

_________________________________________________________________
The new MSN 8: smart spam protection and 2 months FREE*  
http://join.msn.com/?page=features/junkmail
