Date: Tue, 11 May 2004 06:00:23 -0700 (PDT)
From: Steve Elms <selms(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "type 2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: compression ratios and making engines last 

>Given the fact that there's no published
>specifications that I've ever found that definitively
>set forth important dimensions on these engines such 
>as deck height and combustion chamber volume, and
>given that things get even murkier when you're using
>remanufactured components, and since you're committed
>to tearing down the engine to the extent of removing
>the cylinders, I'd suggest cc'ing the heads and
>carefully measuring deck height (no shims) and
>*calculating* what shims are needed to make the CR 
>correct.

I strongly agree!!! IMHO excessively high compression
ratio has killed more VW engines than anything else,
well, maybe over-advanced timing might be worse. I
personally set the compression ratio on all my bus
engines at around 7 to 1. I know that sounds too low
but I don't notice a power loss and my engines last
longer than when I was running higher CR. I drive my
bus very hard. Like about wide open for hours at a
time in Texas heat. The tach hovers around 5000 rpm
and she eats highway like crazy, (for a bus). I know I
shouldn't drive that hard and I usually start out
intending to run 65 or so but usually wind up pinning
the throttle to the floor and leaving it there. I'm
running dual DeLortos, big valve heads, completely
ported externally (I'm talking about the cooling
fins), type 4 oil cooler inside a modified dog house,
dual quiet pack, 009, timing never over 30 degrees
max, and stock bore and stroke, 1600 cc '71 model.
I've seen about 92mph indicated on a level road. 

I'd be interested in hearing what compression ratios
others are running.

Steve Elms
205,000 miles and counting
