Date: Thu, 27 Feb 2003 09:32:53 -0800 (PST)
From: "Ray Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Remove engine AND tranny? 

>I have been working on building one good late
bay out of 2, and I have discovered that it is a
pretty good PITA to remove the pancake engine. So
is it easier to remove the whole engine and
tranny as a unit? 

Brother John, you are attempting to pull a 79 2.0
and put it in the 72, right?  I thought both the
79 wrecked donor and the 72 were manual trannies.
 (I don't know where the auto tranny bunny trail
came from, but ff the 79 is an auto, disregard
this post.)  

If the 79 is a manualI'd probably remove the
engine and tranny as a unit and install it
complete in the 72.  I'm thin ice here, as I too
have much more experience with uprights.  I think
there are issues with mating the 2.0 to the 72
tranny.  Flywheel, starter, etc.  The 79 tranny
is geared differently to take advantage of the
extra power of the 2.0 FI engine.  I think there
maybe a slight shifter difference if you hook up
the 79 manual tranny, but you should be ok since
you have the entire 79 parts bus to scavenge the
proper parts.  

You will have to pull the axles, but greasing the
CV's on that old barnyard finds is something you
should be doing anyway.  

I'm sure some list guru will help us out with
specifics of the 79 engine to 72 tranny vs.  79
engine and tranny into a 72 body, right?   
