From: "Just A Swell Guy" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: fowler(-at-)midicorp.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Thu, 08 Aug 2002 13:47:41 +0000
Subject: Re:  [T2] Buying a bus for the first time... 

Kelly Fowler

Kelly, the best advice I can give you is  TELL US WHERE YOU ARE ! ! !

If you worked in Princeton NJ, and you mentioned this in your note, I am 
sure you would get Mike Benthin's personal attention.  [ Or lived in 
Williamstown NJ ]

In California, there are multitudes [ all with arms full of loaves & fishy 
leftovers from an earlier hippie gathering ]that would invite you to their 
homes ....

And in Northern Virinia/Southern Maryland, there are more lurkers than 
active posters that would be happy to help.

On my first VW bus, I looked SOLIDLY for two years, and I decided on my 
current '78 not out of an intelligent analysis, or with the help of people 
who were more experienced than I, but just because it was the 'quietest' bus 
I came across.

Again, after two years of looking at at least a dozen VW buses, I saw this 
'78 VW bus advertised in the Friday paper, and I called the owner from the 
office at 09:00 (Heck, call at 06:00.  Wake them up ! ! )

I made arrangements to see the VW bus (actually a Westfalia) at lunch time, 
went to the bank and drew out cash.

Saw the bus at noon, gave the seller CASH and got a receipt and a promise 
that I could have the bus that evening.  I did not drive it, or see it move 
from it's parking spot.  I did not check for oil spots on the ground, and I 
don't remember even looking at the engine...  The selling point was - the PO 
said that 'everything works'!!

When I called back at 17:00, the PO said that he had at a half dozen calls 
on the VW.  (I'm thinking, yes, right, a 'good' VW bus will be snatched up 
right quickly, just as I am doing...)

This was my first and continuing VW bus.  Seven years this month.  I have 
had my hands on 4.5 other buses since then, and I have chopped on at least 
30 other buses in the junk yards.

The .5 figure reflects some 3 buses that I could have had, but was a day 
late in follow up.  One '68 camper was offered for free on this list.  I 
went to see it, and the owner offered to give it to me for free and would 
even give me $50 to help my expense to tow it away.  I responded that I 
would not take it for free, nor even accept the bus + $50, but I would pay 
him $100 just for some parts off the '68.  Kind'a twisted, right??  Parts => 
me

Another free bus had lots of great stuff; trans, chrome bumpers, windows, 
nice FI fuel pump, decent tires/wheels/hub caps.  Again, I went back just a 
few hours after the junk yard's flat bed came by.  Right away I went to the 
junk yard (Banks in Stafford VA) and I was quoted some $275 just for the 
front axle beam!!  I did wind up going back to the PO and buying the motor 
from him.  Motor => me

The last part of the .5 bus was a red/white bus at a tow lot. When I walked 
close to it, I saw that it had a set of Michelin XZX tires.  Nice looking 
treads, too. It would be sold for $50 after the 2 month waiting period, and 
I just had to be back there at the right time.  Not wanting to chance losing 
the Michelin XZX's, I went home and loaded four really nice AquaTread tires 
(car tires on VW rims)in the '78, took my 2 Ton jack with 16" lift !!  and 
back to the tow lot after dark.  I cajoled the night attendant to let me 
swap the tires for $20 plus a copy of the verses of the full playlist (320 
songs) of the Grateful Dead. I did get the four Michelin XZX tires, while 
the attendant was crying that every one would see that the tires were 
swapped because I was loading on spotless tires - painted rims, silicon 
blackened tires, and polished hub caps!!  I had to run around getting hands 
full of mud and messing up the tires as best I could before he would let me 
leave the lot!!  Tires => me


From my adventures, I would recommend 3 VW's; the '67 (first 12 Volts, last 
split), the '71 (last upright, first disk brakes, 14" rims), '78 (hydraulic 
lifters).

Go for the '71.  Remember, it's an adventure ! ! ! Get on the bus . . .

Barry B Springfield VA
'78 Westy


_________________________________________________________________
Send and receive Hotmail on your mobile device: http://mobile.msn.com

