Date: Sun, 14 Jul 2002 09:57:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Mbjeeper(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Starting/oil question

>My '78 will rattle a bit and the oil pressure
light stays on and gauge will not register
pressure for about 5 seconds when I start it.... 
I am using Mann filters from Bus Depot and
Castrol Syntec oil.

A good quality oil is only half the equation. 
The second is proper oil.  Your VW is not
designed for 5 weight syntec oil.  Check your
owners manual and notice that 5w-anything is not
listed.  Try 20w50 or 30w.  

I used to have a vanagon with early morning
lifter noise.  20w50 and Mann filters limited it
somewhat.  Straight weight (30w winter and 40w
summer) fixed it.  Also held better pressure at
high temperature. 

Of course, bottom line is that you may need to
adjust the lifters or even replace worn ones. 
But try the oil first.  
 
Also, jeeper, take a look at our Ohio River area
bus group at
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/ohiovalleytribe/





=====
Peace and blessings, 
Nemo, the Bus Captain

74 Westy For Sale:  http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain/index.html

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Autos - Get free new car price quotes
http://autos.yahoo.com
