Date: Sun, 3 Aug 2003 07:15:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: new shocks

Well I got off work and came home on Friday and
started in 
on the installation of the Boges from The Bus Depot.
  The front shocks were a bear to get off. The metal
sleeve in the old shocks stayed on the stud when I
worked
them off on the bottom on both sides and on the top
bolt
on one side. I had to use a abrasive cutting disk with
my
drill motor to cut slots into the sleeves before they
would even start to rotate and come off slooowly. I
did
pretreat them with WD40 the day before I did the job
but
it didnt do any good. The back shocks were a breeze.
  So I climb in DAS bus to head off to a "work on
buses
and BBQ" thing yesterday and I am driving down the
freeway
and look down an much to my suprise I was doing zero
MPH.
DOH! great ride with the new shocks but I had popped
the
speedo cable loose! Visions of a destroyed cable
loomed
but as it turns out everything was fine I just had to
pull it back through the cap. :-)
  Sooo in the long run a good day yesterday with the
installation of one pertronix and the rewireing of a
lovely splitty that had a flame on under the dash.8-O
wasnt as bad as I thought it would be. 
  DAS bus rides very well now behind the big trucks
and the speedo works. On to the next project!

=====
Dan Simmons
http://www.geocities.com/vw_bus_74/index.html

The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected.
