Date: Sun, 17 Apr 2011 22:39:43 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Michael Weary <michael_j_weary(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Propane and what I've encountered

Michael this may be real tough.  Unless you got a shitload of ground clearance
added that is.  Back, many, many, many moons ago, before Bus Depot even
existed to start importing Vanagon tanks, when the list was young, I looked at
getting Manchester tank to do some special increased size (length) vanagon
tanks.  At the time OPD was looming as well, and it was unclear if RV places
would still fill tanks 80% overflow tanks.  I looked extensively for something
about the diameter of the Bus/Westy tank, got catalogs sent to work (being an
engineer then helped a bunch, back in the just started internet days, you had
to ASK people to send you paper catalogs and they wouldn't to normal people)
and eventually talked to Manchester who has made most VW tanks.  They were
happy to build custom FWIW but needed 50 confirmed orders, and priced around
$400 of 1994-5? money.  At the time I contacted/looked at every manufacturer
and could find no small diameter
 horizontal tank that would fit under a Bus/Vanagon and leave reasonable
ground clearance.  But is has been nigh on 15+ years, so who knows.  Seems
like most stock horizontal RV tanks start about 2" diameter larger than the
Bus/Vanagon size, which is the size Manchester supplied for the EVC to
Winnebago, with somewhat dismal under the tank ground clearance...
 
Check RV's in junkyards BTW, dirt cheap if you do find something that will
work that someone will fill.
 
John

--- On Sun, 4/17/11, Michael Weary <michael_j_weary(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:

Regardless I'm still going forward with mine. BUT I NEED long horizontal
cylinders to mount underneath the floor. If you find a supplier please let me
know.
