From: "Jerry Cauto" <jpjerri(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 26 Jun 2005 22:22:41 -0400
Subject: Two Type 2's available '69 and '79

I have two Type 2s to dispose of.  I am hoping that they dont have to be 
sent to the crusher graveyard.   One is a 1979 bus that I had bought as its 
second owner many years ago. I drove the 1979 as my regular vehicle for 
several years; then took it off the road and parked it by my house because I 
needed a different type of vehicle. It is still sitting in the same spot. 
The last inspection sticker on it is dated 1991. Although it ran well and 
looked good when I took it off the road, it has suffered some body spot 
rusting from sitting outside all these years. However, there are still many 
usable parts, and could even be restored if someone wanted to put some work 
into it. It is a standard shift with a gas heater. It is factory basic---not 
a Westy or other camper package.


The second is a 1969 bus that has a California conversion package (not a 
pop top) that included curtains, sink, cabinets, icebox, folding seat/bed, 
etc.   I had a brand new VW short block from Germany installed by a VW 
repair shop in Florida shortly before taking it off the road due to a rusted 
framework. The new short block had about 4000 miles on it and this 1969 bus 
was driven daily until I parked it permanently due to the rusted frame. I 
wouldnt consider this restorable, but Im sure there are parts that would 
benefit someone else.

I bought the 1979 specifically because it was the latest year with the same 
body style as the 1969. All these years I have intended to move the camper 
stuff from the 1969 to the 1979, but it has not happened yet! Guess I have 
to face reality and realize Im never going to get to it; thus, maybe 
someone else can better utilize these vehicles.

I just hate to have them crushed in the wrecking yard if there are folks out 
there who could get some use out of them. Although it would be easier to 
just get them to a wrecking yard, I want to make at least some effort to get 
them to someone who could use them. Obviously, once theyre gone in a 
wrecking yard, theyre gone. In good conscience, I can't do that.

These parts buses are in southeastern Massachusetts. If interested in more 
info, email to jpjerri(-at-)hotmail.com

_________________________________________________________________
Dont just search. Find. Check out the new MSN Search! 
http://search.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200636ave/direct/01/
