Date: Mon, 24 Dec 2001 07:14:00 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Williamson <paulcwilliamson(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1982 Diesel VW bus stolen

If someone could pass this over to the baywindow
list...and maybe post it on vintagebus.com and
thesamba.com?

From http://www.amplepower.com/stolen/index.html

December 10, 2001: We're back from Vancouver, B.C.,
Canada after a long trip back on the bus. Sometime
Saturday night or early Sunday morning, the van we
took to Canada was stolen. Needless to say we're angry
and much surprised for a number of reasons. 

First, the van was parked in what appears to be an
upperclass neighborhood near Stanley Park. Even more
surprising is the fact that the van is a 1982 diesel
VW. That vehicle isn't even on the radar screen for
vehicles typically stolen and it only has a U.S. book
price around $1000! 

It was worth a lot more to us, of course, because it
had been well maintained, got 28 miles per gallon, and
had many amenities for travelling. Gone with the van
is an inverter and crock pot, our RV toilet and
holding tank with macerator pump, a very comfortable
mattress on a large bunk, blankets and afgans, some
received as gifts, our tent, tool box, tire chains,
multimeter, sunglasses, hiking boots, gloves, clothes.
Gone also is the many packages of green tea we had
just purchased for family and friends in the U.S. 

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Send your FREE holiday greetings online!
http://greetings.yahoo.com
