Date: Sat, 11 Jun 2005 20:16:44 +0100
From: Stephen <mail(-at-)wilbo.org.uk>
To: "Messa, Corbett (GE Infrastructure)" <Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com>, 
Subject: Re: [T2] Friday - Stupid Question

I know this has been well answered, but have something to add - I now 
use the diagnostic socket (the probes on my multimeter fit in the holes 
very nicely indeed). On my 73 UK bus, I just plug the red lead into hole 
number 14 on the diagnostic socket. Took a little bit of head scratching 
with the multimeter (on resistance) to figure out which hole connected 
to the coil, but worth it. Doing a tune up, the meter is now well out of 
the way.

 In fact, I am wondering if anyone else uses the diagnostic socket at 
all? One feature I want to understand is how VW dealers used it to 
measure compression. Apparently this was done by measuring the 
electrical load whilst cranking the starter. Anyone have any ideas? I am 
working on the theory they compared the battery voltage with no load and 
then whilst cranking the starter. Perhaps they disabled the ignition? My 
guess is that a 'tight' engine would be more difficult to turn, meaning 
a bigger voltage drop when starting. At my next service I plan to 
measure the voltage drop which the spark plugs out (no compression, I 
hope), and then repeat with the plugs in to see if there is a 
difference. Then I'll try and calibrate with a compression tester.

Anyone have any information on this from a VW dealer to save me drawing 
up a calibration graph?

Stephen
73 UK combi (beetle style engine)
