Date: Wed, 31 Jul 2002 23:17:52 -0600
From: dgrauer <dgrauer(-at-)sasktel.net>
To: "Michael Benthin (MUTS)" <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] FYI Front speakers really good spot.

Heck of a good question, and I wish I could take the
credit, but it just works!

I know that you could put a larger speaker crossways in
the cavity, I placed mine all through them from front
to back, angled, and even tried to place them near the
hole at the rear of the cavity.  The best place I found
in the cavity was as you say right up against the kick
plate, or angular in the cavity and cut the rubber to
give you a sound path (I had my rubber pulled out at an
angle to hear well).  Actually I was just about to
mount them like that; as far to the front of the inside
of the cavity as possible, and cut the rubber in the
ovals.  Then I set one down over the opening while I
was grabbing my pencil and voila, big sound!

Now speakers basically cover the cavity front opening
(5" round in a strangely shaped hole!), and they sound
great; no phase reduction, or echo, and lots of mid
range (just the way I like em). Thats why I posted, its
too karmic/coincidental/other to keep it to myself. 
Like I said I have 5" speakers and they "hang out" to
the outside of the cavity and are now held in by one #8
screw set.  But I think 4" or smaller could be
incorporated into a custom built cover for those
cavities and provide really big sound! Plus could look
nice and not cut the van up too bad.

PO put the rear speakers into the closet and rear seat
door (what a match), and they sound just OK.

I'll pmail you the ulgy pictures of my installation
tomorrow (if anyone else wants the pics pmail me to
this thread)

Logan
