Date: Sun, 8 Sep 2002 09:56:34 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 914 update

Hello list,

Well I haven't written in awhile so I thought I would
write about the progress of my 914 engine. I had
picked up this rebuilt 914 2L engine about a month ago
or so. Because the intake ports were not covered up
from being stored over the past 4 or 5 years, I
removed the heads and cleaned out the spider webs,
dust and debre. I was surprised to find that the
assembly lube had kept the cyllinders from rusting
inside! The engine had no oil in it when I bought it
other than some assembly lube. While I had the heads
off I removed and trashed the head gaskets. I put a
good coat of oil in the cyllinders and bolted the
heads back on. I also disassembled the rocker arm
assemblies, cleaned them, relubed them and replaced
them. I pulled out the push rod tubes and installed a
set of Viton push rod tube seals that I had. I am also
replacing the main seal with a Viton Main seal that I
have. While the engine was partially disassembled, I
cleaned the engine and repainted each part. 

I am to the point where I need to install the engine
tin that goes infront of the fan shroud. My goal is to
have this engine in the bus and running with its Fuel
injection by Christmas. I will post pictures as soon
as I get the fan shroud, fan and alternator instaled. 

For those who are considering it, get the Type IV Bug
me video!!! It is a life saver for type IV new comers!
I have watched it 5 or 6 times and I still learn
things that I had missed.

Any way, thanks for reading this useless post. Have a
great day!!!

David Kelly
From Wilmington, North Carolina

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Finance - Get real-time stock quotes
http://finance.yahoo.com
