From: "Christopher M. Gause" <ubunet(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <kjicehouse(-at-)hotmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 6 Jul 2004 09:37:08 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Need help with welding Woes

>>> 1st issue I have is with a couple of burn thru holes. How do I fill
them with the welder? <<

Mind you that I've just learned recently myself, but I was shown to
start at one side of the hole and QUICKLY move across it. You kinda make
a spiderweb type patch over until it's solid. Should only take a couple
passess. 


>>>So how do I fill in the gap without making it bigger by burning
through the 
metal? <<<

Here's the trick to filling in things too big for the technique above.
Get a piece of brass. Like a good hefty plate of it. I've HEARD aluminum
works too. But clamp this nice thick piece (1/4" or so thick)onto the
non-visible side of your hole, and weld. Starting at the steel part,
just keep laying steel untill the brass (and thus the hole) is covered.
The hot steel won't stick to the Brass (I don't know why it doesn't, it
just doesn't), so you just unclamp the brass and tap it with a hammer
and let if fall off. Make sure not to get burned though. :) Also, make
sure to take LOTS of breaks while doing this, or the metal can heat up
too much, then it shrinks, and your stuck with a larger bondo problem.
Don't ask how I figured that one out. :) 



>>> I've got the gas coming out at 25 as I am working outside. <<<

I believe spattering is from not having enough gas. Don't quote me on
that though. :) The system I have access to is WAY different than yours
I'm sure (it's OLD and 220volt) but the gas on it gets set to 40lbs. 



>>>My last questions are about what do I put over and behind the welds?
<<<

Bondo. But if your able to, I would suggest putting a good epoxy primer
on first. Bondo can hold water in some conditions, so it's always best
IMHO to not put bondo directly on metal. In the olden days they used to
use LEAD instead of body filler. And thus the term for custom cars "lead
sled". But lead fumes and all whatnot are dangerous, and Bondo's gotten
a LOT better in the past 50 or so years. :) Just be sure to scuff the
epoxy primer really good first. Btw, sandable primer and epoxy primer
are NOT the same. Epoxy Primer is also sometimes refered to as "sealer"
becouse that's what's for. 



>> And finally on the inside should I seal it with anything along the
weld line?<<

You should. I suggest POR's line of products. www.por15.com I would just
wirebrush it really good, prep it using "Metal Ready", and then coat it
with "Por-15". Then maybe some ruberized undercoating in the spray can.
Just to be safe, AND becouse POR doesn't like UV from sunlight. 



Hope it helps
Chris
76 Kombi 'The Troll' becouse it keeps returning to life!
