From: "Michael Knight" <vwdormer(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 06 Jul 2004 15:11:57 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Bus for sale

>From: Access Systems  cover it with a tarp for a month and see if you 
>aren't out there
>loooking under the trap before the month is over.  (dang things are worse
>than drugs)

You hit the nail on the BOB! Sometimes I find myself looking out the window 
just to catch a different view.

As for the women:

My oldest duaghter(Kali) loves to work with me, she is 9. She hates to get 
dirty but loves to wear rubber gloves and get things for me. The hardest 
part about hanging out with her is not over explaing how an engine works. 
She's getting there and already has her eyes set on a "BugZilla" or 
"MonsterBug", I hope it's just a phase(Big Bugs that is.). But she knows 
that we will be building her first car before she drive.

Vehda is my youngest a little less than three. Already knows her wrenches 
from screw drivers and hammers, etc. "Daddy let's fix something..." although 
don't get me wrong we do not fix the big dangerous stuff together. I think 
that she just likes to get dirty playing with tools. Later she can help.

My wife Frances has the patience to be VW Widow, although as soon as I get 
in the heat of getting the light bulb to click and get that thing done i 
need to do....BAM! Patience ran out. I will get it done next time. She does 
have great enthusiasm though and is ready for me to get it going so she can 
decorate it and take the kids to the park or to the store, etc. This year 
she even helped me tear down an engine. She asked "How do you know what to 
do with all this stuff?", I replied, " I just put my hands in there and it 
tells me what to do." Her,"What if it lies?". Me,"When I am done if it is 
wrong it will laugh at me and tell me a new story, if it is right everybody 
is happy."

We all love the bus we have now. I am the only one in the family who has 
driven it and th eonly one who has ever been in it while it was moving. I 
still have a ways to go before we go camping in it. But it is still there. I 
have fought with my wife about it and appologized later, she too. I have and 
am still fighting my landlord over it. (Inopperable my ass. Just because you 
take an engine out leave it on jackstands for a few weeks, busted front 
winsheild, multicolored rust spots, unique and original rust holes, custom 
autobody work to her nose from something the PO was trying to get to close 
to, too fast, and a FUNKY ASS SAGE GREEN HUE, capped by a piece of molded 
off white camper top that is just Icing on the cake. What a beauty! I can't 
wait to drive.

I lost my first VW '69 Squareback in Oiville, VA just west of Richmond. I 
decided to go party that weekend instead of taking care of it. I went back 
on monday and the clerk at the gas station told me it had been towed, "I 
thought you arranged it...nope don't remeber the company that was here." I 
kick myself around for that every couple of days. My second VW I lost was a 
SunBeetle. My wife bought for me it stayed at a friends house. He moved and 
I was about to do the same.

I never got the chance to bring that one back to life....


Or did I never take the chance.

Michael Knight
'77 Westy Deluxe, "el Verde"

_________________________________________________________________
Get tips for maintaining your PC, notebook accessories and reviews in 
Technology 101. http://special.msn.com/tech/technology101.armx
