Date: Mon, 12 Dec 2005 00:45:30 -0800
From: tristan shaffer <tristanshaffer(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "claralw(-at-)aol.com" <claralw(-at-)aol.com>, VintageBus list
Subject: Re: [VB] Wipers Again

On 12/11/05, claralw(-at-)aol.com <claralw(-at-)aol.com> wrote:

>Here in the PNW with the rain being light, slow wipers are nice.  It
>would be nice to have an even slower speed too, for the times it's
>between a drizzle and a heavy mist.

As another PNWVW-er, possibly the only feature plastic cars have that
I find lacking in the bus are delay wipers.  Most of the time I turn
them on for only a cycle or two, which probably isn't doing good
things to the switch.

One solution I thought about trying was to build a delay based on a
555 timer ic and a power MOSFET- basically the timer circuit controls
the MOSFET, which swiches power to the wiper motor.  The timer would
be set up for a period of maybe 10 seconds, duration shouldn't matter
too much since the self-parking mechanism in the motor would ensure
the wipers went through a complete cycle before turning off. The rest
of the wiring for low and high speeds would remain the same.

Googling for examples, though, I stumbled on what might be a better
solution- a 555 and MOSFET-based PWM controller.  These control the
motor speed by switching the motor on and off rapidly, rather than
varying the current applied to the motor.

Here are a couple of examples:
<http://www.uoguelph.ca/~antoon/circ/pwm555.html>
<http://www.dprg.org/tutorials/2005-11a/>

I priced out the components for the first example, and it would be
around $10 to build, which is about what you would pay for a voltage
drop resistor.  The benefit of the PWM controller is you would have
continuously variable wiper speeds between off and warp speed, and
it's more efficient than a drop resistor (not that that's a huge
consideration, though).

Has anyone tried using PWM instead of a voltage drop?  Any reasons why
it wouldn't work in a bus?

-Tristan
