From: "Mick McQuilton" <whoajesus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, ralitaco(-at-)bellsouth.net
Bcc: 
Date: Mon, 05 Aug 2002 10:13:56 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] 70 Trans - a bit wordy sorry 


Since I got it on the road in April, it has never really wanted to go into
or stay in third.
Now it doesn't seem to want to be in first.


That *could* be a shifter/plate adjustment problem. Pull up the front mat, 
loosen the two 13 mm bolts and move the shifter around. See if you can 
eliminate the problem by adjusting the position of the shifter.


I see that one of the rubber or plastic inserts is missing on the shift rod
by the nose cone.
I know that is not good, but I don't believe that is what's causing my
problem.
Is it??


Probably not, although I'm not so sure which piece you're talking about. 
There is a brass bushing at the nosecone, a shift coupler that attaches to 
the nose cone, plastic bushings inside the shift tube and, if you're lucky, 
rubber dust boots over the important linkage points.



I believe it is time to replace it, what do y'all think?


Probably so. If it's an original unit and the bus has seen average mileage 
(meaning it has at least 200K on the clock) then the trans is getting tired. 
I've owned two early bays, a '69 and a '71, and have had to replace the 
transmissions in both of them. That said, I would look to eliminate the 
other possibilities for problems in the shift linkage, as they are obviously 
easier and less expensive to repair. A trans can fail in a number of ways. 
One way to look at it is to start saving for the new one and keep the old 
one for as long as you can stand the annoyance it causes you.

A new trans is really not a big deal; a good rebuilt one for a '70 shouldn't 
cost you more than $500. I've gotten mine from a builder here in Colorado 
whom I would recommend, but you should shop around your area first. Buy a 
transmission from a reputable company or a person specializing in aircooled 
VW transmissions.

Another, cheaper option is a junkyard, but I wouldn't want to spend all that 
time putting in a trans to find out it's as bad as the old one.



Lastly, if I do replace the trans, I sure would love some help as I have
never pulled one before.


If you've done an engine, you'll have no trouble with a trans. They are 
simple to replace, although it is a good deal of labor. One person can 
replace a transmission in a pinch, though I would find a second to help if 
at all possible. They weigh considerably less than an engine, and attach at 
three points to the car (in a '70). Be sure you replace the clutch set and 
hey, why not check your crankshaft endplay while you have the engine out?



Good luck. A new transmission is a thing of beauty ... You never knew how 
good your bus could shift!


Mick McQuilton
Aspen, CO
1971 Campmobile "Luna"



_________________________________________________________________
Chat with friends online, try MSN Messenger: http://messenger.msn.com

