From: "Just A Swell Guy" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Mon, 05 Aug 2002 17:52:16 +0000
Subject: re-establishing EGR in my FI 

>>regarding the EGR valve, when i found it encased with trapped carbon, i 
>>found what appears to be something like a thick counter-sunk washer on the 
>>end of a threaded item. not sure what it does or how it works, and i 
>>wonder since it fits in loosely do i simply lay it on the threads and 
>>button it up...?


OK, I am a novice, but I did clean up 2-3 EGR valves.

The first EGR valve, I successfully removed the 'solder' that locked this 
counter-sunk washer to the tiny threaded shaft.  It then unscrewed.  Great!!

The second EGR valve was so frozen, I broke it trying to unscrew the 
counter-sunk washer.  Trash.

The third EGR valve, I could not remove enough solder to unscrew the 
counter-sunk washer, so I cleaned it as best I could, and let it go at that. 
  At least I had ONE good EGR valve ! !

The secret:  You MUST unscrew that counter-sunk washer in order to 
completely dismantle the EGR valve, and you MUST completely dismantle the 
EGR valve to refit a new, formed rubber washer on the other side of the EGR 
valve.  If you don't think you need a new rubber, just leave the 
counter-sunk washer alone, and do like you did, and like I did on the third 
EGR valve, pick and clean and blow and wipe and cuss and reconsider if you 
really want to do this.

BTW, I don't know just where I would GET a new formed rubber washer if I 
NEEDED it!!


If I remember correctly, the counter-sunk washer you mention CLOSES the  EGR 
valve at idle, so that you are getting purest air/fuel mixture available.

When you open the throttle, this counter-sunk washer open similarly, and you 
feed oxygen poor exhaust gas to the intake manifold via these two tube you 
cleaned out.

On full throttle, there is another counter-sunk washer inside the valve, on 
the same spindle as the outer counter-sunk washer that closes the EGR valve 
from accepting any more oxygen poor exhaust gas, and you are running the 
purest air/fuel mixture a before, with the most power.

In the middle range of the throttle movement (from just past idle to just 
before full throttle) you are feeding the engine a reduced volume of 
air/fuel mixture, but maintaining a high compression because of the extra 
oxygen poor exhaust gas which is being fed in.

In theory, this mixture gives less power, but significantly reduces the 
engine temperature, so you are running much (relatively) cooler. But at idle 
and at full throttle, when you really need it, you are getting the most 
power with the best air/fuel mixture.

Barry sends


_________________________________________________________________
Join the world’s largest e-mail service with MSN Hotmail. 
http://www.hotmail.com

