From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Jan 2002 23:13:02 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Paint question - Thanks

> Being happy with it is the most important thing.


And that's the bottom line right there.

A VW bus is meant to be enjoyed. This means different things to different
people. For some, it's an impeccably detailed bus that looks like it just
rolled off of the assembly line in Hanover, and the pride that that entails.
For some it's winning the first place award at a VW show.  But for others,
it's the life experiences that we create with the bus that's the real
reward, not the metal and glass itself. It's the travel, it's the people we
meet along the way, the zigging instead of zagging (sorry, Cadillac).  The
bus is a means to an end, not the end itself.

Sometimes that means that we make due with what we have.  Maybe it's a piece
of duct tape in place of a proper repair, because we just didn't know how to
fix the thing right, but we got it back on the road again despite our
inexperience.  Maybe it's a Maaco paint job, or yes, even a spray can.  Or
maybe it's a full-blown restoration if resources allow it - who wouldn't
want a perfect bus if all things were equal?  But the point is, this isn't a
priceless gem, to be kept under glass and observed passively from a
distance.  The Bus is meant to be used. Much of its appeal (even to this
date where it's still sold in Latin America) is that it is indeed a larger
version of the "people's car,"  which can be driven daily and maintained
adequately on a limited budget by your everyday backyard mechanic.  It's a
workhorse, not a show pony.

I for one don't mind if the carpet in my Westy has a stain from someone
dropping some food while we were cooking out at a music festival.  Or if
there's a little ding in the sliding door from a rock hitting the bus when
we were travelling along the coastal highway. Should I have given up the
chance to make those memories, in exchange for my bus being in better
condition?  Should I be afraid to pop my top and camp in the rain, because
if I do it often enough my canvas might mildew?  Should I avoid the gravel
country roads in favor of the smooth highways so the nose of my bus won't
get stone chips?  If I did, then I would miss the point of owning a bus.

So will someone look at my bus down the road and call me a DPO for all of
the scars that it shows from its use and age?  Perhaps.  But then again,
they may never appreciate that there is a story behind every scar, and that
every little scar was worth it - part of its history.  Even if the "history"
of a particular scar might be that by attempting that repair, I learned that
I wasn't very good at it.  :-)

Just my $.02....

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  (215) 234-VWVW
  www.busdepot.com

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by Part #    1-866-BUS-DEPOT



