Date: Tue, 9 Jul 2002 16:01:44 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: jb(-at-)nv.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: Type4 2.0L horsepower/torque (Was Oil Cooler)

>I'm thinking I need to have someone take a
serious look at the motor and what
horsepower/torque it's developing. Trouble is, I
don't know anyone down here in SD who's capable
of doing that. Can you, or anyone, think of any
tests I can perform to tell whether my output is
restricted in any way?

Are you talking dyno testing?  No you don't need
that.  What you need is to know the general
condition of the engine.  Notice I said you,
because, especially with the hourly rates in
California, you shouldn't pay anyone else to do
this stuff.  Buy a compression tester, vacuum
guage, timing gun (Muir be damned- even supposing
you are satisfied with TDC timing, which you
should be, you cannot test your dizzy with an
idiot light), a tach/dwell, a voltmeter, and a
fuel pressure guage (for FI engines).  And then
you must learn how to use them.  Start with Muir
and listen to the list when it's time to actually
do it.  I am a mechanical idiot and I can do
these things.  You will especially need to be
able to do this in baja.  Few folks down there
will be familiar with your fuel injection setup. 


The compression tester (or leakdown tester, even
better), the other tests, and various symptoms
(burning oil, fuel in oil, plug condition,
excessive blowby) will let you know the condition
of the engine.  And you won't need to pay a race
shop the astronomical rate for the dyno. 
 

=====
Peace and blessings, 
Nemo, the Bus Captain

74 Westy For Sale:  http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain/index.html

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Sign up for SBC Yahoo! Dial - First Month Free
http://sbc.yahoo.com
