Date: Tue, 09 Jul 2002 21:40:59 -0500
From: Rick Taylor <BusBarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
To: Buskatiers Group <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: New Tool!!!

Rear wheel bearings, they don't last forever and if you have ever needed one
replaced, either you laid out a chunk of change, or put a lot of blood,
sweat and tears into it.  But greasing the bearings by hand is a pain, not
to mention, unless you remove them all together, you don't do a very good
job, until now!!

I've come up with a tool that makes greasing rear wheel bearings a snap
compared to the old way, and it gets the grease completely through the
bearing, the way it should be.  This will make your rear wheel bearings last
that much longer, really they should never wear out if kept greased.

Designing, building, working out the bugs and learning how to use it took
most of a day, but the results were worth it.  My westy only has 52,000
original miles on it and the rear bearings have never been greased, they
were in need.  The old grease was hard and looked a bad color, but the
bearings were good.  My new tool put new grease in both bearings and flushed
out the old in just a couple minutes and I didn't even have to remove the
bearings, just the grease seals.

And as an added bonus (starting to sound like a Ronco ad?) this thing
greases CV joints in seconds and puts the grease inside the bearing, not
just on top.  My hands stayed a lot cleaner and the bearings are a whole lot
better shape.

I'll have to give a short seminar for the bus people around here, I'm sure
someone needs their bearings and CV's greased :)


