Date: Sun, 6 Apr 2003 21:14:09 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The little bus that thought it could, Almost running...

Hello List,

Well, I got my 914 Porsche engine to run today, well
sort of. I finished installing the fuel injection and
decided that I would try to start it. Well after
resolving some electrical problems, putting 5 gal of
gas in the tank, and static timing the engine, I
sprayed some starting fluid in the intake and turned
the key. It automatically sprung to life for 5-7
seconds. and quit. This tells me that the timing is
close enough to get it to run and the problem had to
be that fuel was not being delivered to the combustion
chambers so I went to work with my handy digital multi
meter. The fuel pump is getting voltage but I do not
yet have a fuel pressure/ vacuum gauge to test the
fuel pressure yet. I checked the double relay via
Bently and it checked out alright.  I have decided
that the problem is either a bad fuel pump ( the wires
may be switched...) or the injectors are not being
turned off and on. Oh, question, From what I
understand, all of the injectors fire at the same time
when the points are open, right? I just wanted to make
sure that the problem did not lie in me having the
injector wires switched. Any way, I am through working
on it tonight and thought I would see if any one had
any suggestion. Is there anything that I may be
missing? I am seriously thinking of getting a remote
starter so I can do some of the diagnostic tests that
bently suggests without having someone else crank the
engine for me. Oh, FYI, This is a 914 2L engine with
79 fed F.I. mated to a 73 automatic transmission in a
74 bus. Thanks in advance!

Have a great day!

Regards,
David Kelly
