Date: Tue, 18 Jun 2002 08:55:25 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Williamson <paulcwilliamson(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: VW denying their heritage?  More trademark stuff

So thumbing through the July issue of DB&HVWs, I see
all the regular ads.  But one from Wolfgang Int'l
catches my attention. "What is it?" I started
thinking...hmmm.  No, this can't right right, maybe
it's a scratch-off game they are doing...nope.

Then I see the text -

"Emblem removed at Volkswagens' request!"

WHAT????!?!!

So now if you have a picture of a vehicle THEY
manufactured that you are selling parts for and
identify the owner, you are in violation of some very
skewed trademark interpretation?  Then I look and see
NO other company that advertises in the same mag
having the same standard applied to them.  What is
this?  I wish I knew what they were thinking.  Maybe
that's it - they aren't.  I looked through some other
make specific magazines, and can't find any cheesy
"blacked out" emblems.  Very depressing.  

I wonder if they've ever heard of the term "Cutting
off your nose to spite your face."  I was kicking
around the idea of holding off buying a new car to
check out the new Microbus, but I think I'll just go
ahead and put my money back into the vendors that
really know what a microbus is and probably buy some
nicely done daily driver restored splitty.

Paul

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! - Official partner of 2002 FIFA World Cup
http://fifaworldcup.yahoo.com
