From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "'list vintage bus'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Jul 2005 20:28:23 -0400
Subject: Bus Depot List Member Discount

My recent post referencing the Bus Depot list member discount resulted in a
slew of emails asking about the discount. I guess it's been a while since
anyone mentioned it, and some people were not aware that it existed.

The list member discount is 5% on orders over $50 (before discount, tax, or
shipping), and is available only to current list members. As the long-timers
here know, I have been a list member myself since long before I started the
Bus Depot, way back when the Type2, VintageBus, and Vanagon lists were a
single combined list. (Wow, it's been a long time since then, hasn't it?)
When I took the plunge and decided to turn my hobby into my livelihood, the
list was the first place I announced the opening of the Bus Depot.  I got
overwhelming support from the members of the list, without which the Bus
Depot might not exist today. The list member discount is my way of giving
something back to the list and thanking you for your support over the years.
While 5% may not sound like a huge discount at first glance, since we
discount so heavily to begin with it is actually a pretty good chunk of our
profit. In any case it will largely offset your shipping cost when you place
an order.

To obtain the discount, enter code   list1e  (that's a 1, not an L, before
the "e") in the Referral Code field upon checkout. The discount will display
on the checkout page. If you are calling your order in, ask for the
discount. The following items do not qualify for the discount: Sale items,
special-order or made-to-order items (i.e.TMI door panels, upholstery,
carpet kits, rebuilt engines/heads/transmissions), tires, purchase of gift
certificates (although you can use it when redeeming the gift certificate),
shipping, or orders to which another discount has already been applied.  The
discount must be requested when the order is placed and cannot be applied
retroactively.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
