From: "Eron Crites" <emcrites(-at-)msn.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 12:58:11 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Looking for Alternator Conversion Kit for 71 Westy


I am always astounded with the blanket statement that power=volume.  I am 
just as annoyed by the urban-automotive D.J. who feels the need to 'share' 
his taste in 'music' with the world around him/her.  What is the intended 
volume?  I believe that is personal choice.  My choice in quality 
amplification for my car/bus is the same as it is in my Home Theater.  
Impressive depth/soundstage/timbre/ and low T.H.D.(total harmonic 
distortion).  I believe you have the terms power and subwoofer misconstrued.


>Because if played at the intended volume in an urban setting it subjects
>everyone within 50 yards of the vehicle to the musical tastes of the
>stereo owner.
>>

>Wattage is power, the product of voltage and amperage.  The relationship
>between the power and current is porportional at constant voltage.  It
>doesn't matter which term is discussed.

Actually, it does matter which term is discussed.  Power is lelated 
proportionally to resistance as well as current.  Resistance varies for a 
number of reasons.  One of these (and usually the most prominent)reasons is 
heat.  Amplifiers are very inefficient devices, and typically lose between 
60 to 80% of their power to heat.  A 100 watt aplifier is not twice as 
'loud' as a 50 watt apmplifier.  You need to increase your power tenfold to 
perceptively double your listening volume(at peaks of course, assuming your 
taste in music accomodates such wide dynamic range material).  The other 
thing to consider with an air cooled classic is the noise floor that exists 
while driving at 60 MPH(acceptable speed everyone?).  It takes an acceptable 
increase in SPL(sound pressure levels) to overcome this road noise, not to 
mention the fact that most of that loss is at the lower audible 
octaves(bass).
>

>
>In a small enclosed space, an audio level of 30W continuously is loud.
>Peak levels are momenatary only and do not use significant power.

If I were playing a 1khz test tone with a 30 watt continuous output, it 
would be deafening, but I don't listen to test tones, I listen to music.  
Music's auditory 'bandwidth' requires much more power to be transmitted to a 
driver mechanism(speaker) than a sine-wave test tone.  BTW, a speaker is 
another (usually)very inefficient device, and itself poses a measureable 
loss in the rated output of an amplifiers' total output.


>The typical bus driver would not run such a system.  Of the 250 buses at
>BBBVI, I only saw a couple with big sound systems.  A blanket
>recommendation to "anyone running any kind of stereo amplification" to buy
>an expensive modified alternator is not good advice.  For most bus drivers
>with modest stereos as it is a waste of money and can lead to problems
>down the road when the modified alternator needs service or replacement.



Who is the typical bus driver? Are you?  Am I?  I wasn't speaking to the 
typical person who owns a bus, I was speaking to someone who asked the 
quesion about adding a larger alternator to their Type 2.


>30A??  I think that this is a bit high.  Perhaps the inital surge,

Perhaps we should place an ammeter in series with the AC coil and test our 
theories.

>Not true.  The alternator is regulated by voltage at a level slightly
>above that of a fully-charged battery.  The charging current into the
>battery is limited by the internal resistance of the battery and
>the terminal voltage.  A 75A alternator produces the same voltage as a 50A
>alternator.  The only way the charging current could go over 30A or so is
>if the battery were completely dead, and even then the current would drop
>rapidly as the terminal voltage increased.  High charging currents are not
>all that good for batteries either, particularly deep cycle batteries.
>
>
I will agree with most of this statement, except for the assumption that the 
75 amp alternator was designed exactly the same as the 50 amp, and that the 
total charging outputs would be the same.  Companies like Phoenix Gold build 
150 amp alternators for competition car audio(as well as additional 
applications) and I am positive that these devices are very different from 
the typical automotive dynamo.

	another $0.02
	Eron Crites
	(getting dumber by the post)


_________________________________________________________________
Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com/intl.asp.

