Date: Fri, 17 May 2002 19:25:10 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: More small items to sell (CHEAP!!) I need early bay tail light and back up light housing..

Hello List,

Well I have sold a few of the parts that I had for
sale. I am adding a few more and I need a couple of
parts. I have already sold both front door window
felt, the red lens, both door air ducts with arm
rests, both door vent grills, and the driver's side
window regulator. I have added one rectangular tail
lens. This is a German lens made in 76. It looks
great! It has no hazing, no pits, No scratches. It has
2 small flaws. One is a small crack on the bottom side
of the lens. I couldn't even see it when it was on the
vehicle. The small flaw is a chip missing on the lower
edge. I took a picture of it. I would like to get
$5.00 for this tail lens. I have also added one amber
door reflector. This one looks great considering it is
used. Has a couple of small scratches. It has no
hazing, cracks, or chips. It is a hella lens. The
black trim around it looks great as well. It comes
with its back plate and rubber. I am asking $4.00 for
this. I have one good blue door vent slider. I want
$2.00 for it. The last item I have added is a
passanger side mirror in fair to good condition. It
swivels like is should. It does not come with the
crome piece that screws in the door. Would make a good
replacement for a broken, froze, or worse mirror than
this one. I am asking $2.50 for it. Let me know if you
see anything that you need or want. Here is the link
to the pictures.

 
http://www.cartogra.com/rs/13B7A53D-6844-11D6-B42B-0090277A760E

I am in need of ONE early bay window tail light
housing and ONE back up light housing. 68-71 or 72 I
think. I have a friend in need of these. His are
broken completely apart. Any help would be
appreciated. Thanks and have a nice day!

David Kelly
From Wilmington, NC

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
LAUNCH - Your Yahoo! Music Experience
http://launch.yahoo.com
