Date: Wed, 10 May 2006 16:14:46 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Moore <jem_93035(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: 65 panel progress

This is an interesting discussion, welding vs
rivet/adhesive.  As an aircraft sheet metal mechanic I
can attest to the value of adhesives and rivets in
aircraft construction where they have been used since
the 50's or even before.  You would be surprised how
much of the C-130 is glued together, like the landing
gear doors for instance.  That is not exactly a non
structural part as the failure in the door would
indeed cause serious effects.

So I would have to say if properly used in the right
application rivets and adhesives would work just fine.
 But they must be used correctly.  I have patched rust
holes in my bus using this method but I had to reject
some of the tools and materials suggested by some
companies.  Eastwood sells some tools for this method
of sheet metal repair but you have look out for the
tool application.  For example they show a rectangular
patch applied to a flat area.  They sell a tool to
form an offset flange around the inside of the
cut-out.  The problem is that this tool will not get
into the corners as shown in the photo in their
cataloge.  The tool they sell to get into the corners
is not heavy duty enough to flange 16 gage metal
though so your are stuck with a botched job from the
start.  Their dimple tool is inadequate also.  I would
suggest buying aircraft tools for this job.  This
method requires precision workmanship if you want it
to look good and last.  I kind of like the looks of a
riveted patch panel myself depending on where it is. 
I also like having access doors to places that require
maintenance periodically like the top of the engine
compartment and the fuel sender unit. 

John
67 Westy 
