Date: Thu, 11 May 2006 06:53:44 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Moore <jem_93035(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:  Harbor Freight Compressor

This is an excerpt from Practical Machinist Forum.
(matt_isserstedt)   Here he answers a question on what
air compressor to buy.  This is a great forum for this
topic and can be found at www.practicalmachinist.com 
Just search on air compressor and you'll find
everything you need to know.
-----------------------------------------------
matt_isserstedt

If you are going to "live" with the compressor in your
work space, I'd first recommend to get it as far away
as possible. Add "baffles" in the direct line of
sight, such as furnaces, walls, shelves, anything with
soft random surfaces that tend to absorb or re-route
sound pressure waves. A temporary screen or
semi-doghouse lined with egg-crate foam will help a
lot. Allow it to breathe, so to speak, so the
compressor doesn't fry itself.

Get the feet up off the floor on resilient mounts...I
did wonders in cutting out an irritating high pitched
"tinny" sound by adding 4 swiveling leveling feet with
rubber cups on them to my T-30. Before the steel feet
were in direct contact with the concrete, and while it
didn't dance around, it did produce the irritating
noise. Now I have mostly the compression noise from
the intake.

5hp vertical 60 gallon might be a good balance point.
1 stage or 2 stage depending on wallet, probably 1
stage because you don't really need the extra
compression step....as has been discussed before many
owners choose to throttle back the pressure switch
from 175psi to something around 125psig.

Of course by buying something more "heavy duty" like a
Quincy you also buy reliability on the order of 30
years (SWAG). Minimum price point isn't going to get
that, and it might not be serviceable from a parts
standpoint in 5 more years.

It's truly a big problem to get your arms around and
an expensive proposition at that.

Admittedly I overbought somewhat, I rarely use
compressed air but when I do have the occasional blast
cabinet session I'm all set.

-Matt
-----------------------------------------

I'd suggest getting a used one, oil lubed, 7hp or
more, 60-80 gal and get a good regulator for it. 
Quincy is a well known brand for a high end
compressor.  HF isn't going to get my vote.  Good
luck...

John
67 Westy
