From: Chelsea Chick <chickchelsea(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Aug 2008 12:30:47 -0700
Subject: "Love...come to a screeching halt!" (or my '68 bus squeal)

Hello all,

I have been a "lurking" reader for awhile now, but this is the first time I
have subscribed and posted.

I am a 30 year-old female with a 40 year-old bus (1968).  I've had her for 8
years now, and we have had a great relationship...until recently-when it has
become a bit strained.  Please understand, my love for my bus has not changed,
but my frustration and disappointment surrounding a recent mechanical issue is
threatening to evolve our relationship to one of pure excitement to one of
dread and detachment.

Over the past couple months, I've been experiencing an extremely annoying,
high-pitch squeal coming out of either the front and/or rear brakes/drum area.
This first occurred after I had the front brakes replaced two months or so
ago.  It started off small- only noticeable once every five minutes or so- at
a very low-but audible- level, and now it has increased to a raging scream now
ever time I approach a complete stop.

I have brought my bus to three shops now to try to isolate this issue.  The
brakes have been checked (front are new and rear are at 75-80%), the brake
fluid has been checked, and all of the drums have been inspected.  It was
noticed that the drums were warped quite a bit, so one by one they were sanded
down (and replaced if necessary).  Unfortunately, no one has been able to
"fix" this sound and it seems to be getting worse.

I can't say that the braking function has been affected, but I every once in
awhile I feel like there is a tight/ pulsing feeling as I brake (as if my
tires were square- and thump, thump, thumping).  There is no way to brake to
avoid this noise (pressing lighting, physically pulsing, and braking hard all
yield the same results).  Before I had the drums "repaired" I was noticing the
noise even when I wasn't braking, but that issue seemed to be resolved after
the drums were sanded.  (I bought new tires during this whole fiasco, but that
did not affect the noise or feeling at all.)

I'm at a point of complete frustration now.  The noise is annoying.  It is
loud- outside the vehicle and in.  I fear it's getting worse.  Even though no
one has seemed to be able to locate a real function issue, I have some
deep-seated suspicions that the brakes might not be safe.  I don't think
another trip to the mechanic is really the answer (plus I have already spent a
small fortune on mechanic bills this year).

I don't want to park her for good, but I've never be so frustrated in the last
8 years.

If anyone has any advice, I'd love to hear it.  I'd also love to know if there
are any retired or hobby mechanics out in Portland, Oregon, who would like to
take on this beast.  Any assistance to help me save my love will be greatly
appreciated!
_________________________________________________________________
Be the filmmaker you always wanted to belearn how to burn a DVD with
Windows..
