From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2007 23:15:53 -0400
Subject: Buses By The Depot

Several have asked if we're going to do it again this year. The day that
works for me would be Saturday October 20.  It would be the same location as
last year - Green Lane Park just outside of Perkiomenville PA (a county park
in a very scenic area, especially in the fall).  Overnight camping is
available both Friday the 19th and Saturday the 20th, or you could just come
for the day.  There are no electrical hookups, which can be a negative for
some depending on how chilly it gets at night.  (Typical is maybe 55-60 by
day, mid 40's at night.)   

I'd like to get a rough idea of whether there is interest in this on that
particular weekend. If you think you'd want to attend, I'd appreciate it if
you'd shoot me a quick email.  If there's enough interest I'll get the ball
rolling.  Below I have pasted the description from last year.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 




Location: Green Lane Park,  Green Lane, PA.  Located in the scenic Perkiomen
Valley, roughly midpoint between Philadelphia, Allentown, and Reading, PA.
There is no cost to attend this gathering if you are only coming for the
day, but you must pay a $15 fee to stay overnight. This fee is per day per
site, not per vehicle, so if you are caravaning with someone else you may
share a site. 

The park consists of over 3400 acres and three bodies of water totaling 870
acres. Four recreational activity sites within the park offer a variety of
uses, including 50 camping sites, hiking and horseback trails, three tennis
courts, two playgrounds, a nature center, an enclosed pavilion, fishing, and
electric boat rentals.  There are no electrical hookups on the camping
sites, and pets are not permitted. The park is also the starting point for
the Perkiomen Trail, a walking/cycling trail that extends 20 miles to Valley
Forge National Historical Park and then connects to the Schuylkill River
Trail, which follows the Schuylkill River an additional 11 miles past
Boathouse Row to the Philadelphia Art Museum. The historic Inn At Perkiomen
Creek, within walking distance of the campground, offers pub food, find
dining, and spirits (and is also a bed-and-breakfast).

No specific recreational activities are planned. However, a visit to the
nearby Bus Depot (Bus/Vanagon parts specialist) is planned for Saturday at
about 3:30. Also there will be a potluck dinner at 6 for those who would
like to bring something along.
