From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "'type 2 list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "'vintagebus \(\(vintagebus\)\)'"
Date: Fri, 15 Jan 2010 10:52:14 -0500
Subject: BusDepot Donating 25% of Profits to Haiti Earthquake Relief

As some of you know, ever since I started The Bus Depot we've donated a
portion of our income to humanitarian and social charities on an ongoing
basis. (See http://busdepot.com/help.jsp#DONATIONS . )  But once in a while
a tragedy occurs that is so staggering in scale that it demands stronger
action.  The tragedy in Haiti is certainly one of those cases. The Red Cross
estimates that there are 50,000 dead, and 3 million injured or homeless.
This among a people already so desparately poor that they live on an average
of $270 a year.

To do our part, the Bus Depot will donate 25% of our net profit on your Bus
Depot order to earthquake relief in Haiti, thru the end of the month. This
is, of course, over and above our other charitable donations.  To encourage
participation by our employees, I have also instituted a policy whereby the
Bus Depot will match any employee donations dollar for dollar.

For those who wish to donate directly, I have also placed links on our site
to two nonprofits that the Bus Depot donates to - Doctors Without Borders
(www.doctorswithoutborders.org) and AmeriCares (www.americares.org).  Of
course there are many worthy organizations, but we chose those particular
ones because they are top rated by Charity Navigator, which ranks nonprofits
based on the percentage of each dollar that actually goes to the cause
rather than salaries or overhead.


- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
