From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 24 Jul 2002 11:01:20 -0700
Subject: diary of a sick mind

Hi All,

I've been spending a few days reflecting on the double cab progress after
the seattle vintage meet (and then having Greg condemn the dc on Sunday...
but that's another story...).   I decided to try and sort through items on
my todo list... I put together a list and thought maybe i should do this in
MS 'project' or something and then decided against it...  anyway, a few of
my current projects are still in a 'finding' mode I thought I'd post up for
a few items just to see what could be had.... odd ball items:

- in restoring original interior panels, I have an idea of how to repair
them to look like new, however, I'd love to find some 'scraps' of early
commercial panels to experiment with.  I really don't want to jump in and
try on my semi good panels first thing.

- i've also decided to re do my vent windows... i'm still not satisfied with
the results in regards to the excess rubber behind the 'swoosh'.  I noticed
several busses at the vintage meet merely left of the swoosh...  anyway, I
would really like to find a pair of nice vent frames and 'sekurit' glass for
the 59.  I want to build a pair i'm happy with before I take out the ones in
there now.  Note that the swoosh for the 59 is different for a 67...
sometime in between they changed.  The later swoosh is much more narrow and
the earlier one looks much more like a nike logo.

- 59 rear mat... see other post

- still looking for a few pieces of heater duct fabric (looks like burlap
and not the later plastic coated material).

- oh, I found my gas tank divider screws finally! :-)


TIA

David
http://dsquared-dev.com/davem/things_to_do.htm

