Date: Tue, 11 Dec 2012 15:55:15 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Squeaky front wheel

Is your grease cap rubbing on the lock nut inside? i.e. is it dented or 
installed crooked?

Does your brake pedal pulse when you try to stop and if so is it in time 
with the squeaking noise? if so you might be hearing the brake pads 
rubbing against the caliper b/c of the warped rotor. Last times I drove 
my '78 before i tore it all down the front brakes squealed like nobody' 
business and the pads were good. It was where the pads rubbed against 
the calipers at the ends of the pads that made the noise b/c the pads 
were vibrating. A bit of brake pad grease between the caliper and pad at 
the ends and one of those anti-squeal shims would have fixed that.

My CR-V recently had some of the same issues with cheaper NAPA brake 
pads. Eventually they "wore in" and got quiet. The factory pads 
(original and one replacement set) never did that. The OEM pads for the 
CR-V came with the anti-squeal shim and I used a dab of the grease at 
the ends of the pads.

The NAPA pads made a slight squeaking noise at low speeds until i put my 
foot lightly on the pedal. I can't remember if you said anything about 
light pressure on the brake pedal making the noise go away.

You did recently repack the front bearings?

Have you bounced front end a little to see if it creaks or squeaks? I've 
seen vehicles with out of round wheels or tires that bounce slightly at 
low speeds and thus could cause the suspension to squeak (see many 90s 
era Fords for example noises). The VW suspension is totally different 
but...

Just throwing out a bunch of simple stuff for ideas.

Chris in TN
