From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>, buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 21 Nov 2003 07:07:10 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] RE: [T2] New house guest HELP/update3

The Swiss boys got there engine in and running, have a few bugs to still
work out (any body know where a 79 only hose guide is). It runs much better
then when they came in but sounds like it has a couple bad lifters, will
address that today along with a charging problem.
  The exhaust system was in excellent shape and they had no problem with
that. The O2 sensor was removed by the PO and a few other do dads, this is
where we hope some knowledgeable late bus people will step in along there
journey to insure their saftey.
  Their names are Patrick and Marcel and will travling through a town near
some of you soon.

ronnie

ps. Thanks to all that have offered help, advice, a place to stay etc for
our Swiss travelers. They are looking forward to meeting all of you.


Subject: [VB] RE: [T2] New house guest HELP/update 2


  So my new shop mates from Switzerland have completely redone the top end
of their 2 litre engine in their 79 Westy AUTO! They started on Monday
pulling the engine, took them all day .
   Tuesday they disasembled the complete top end. I took the heads to the
machine shop where they discovered that they had been rebuilt once before
and welded up. We decided to clean them, check the surface and replace all
the valves (guides were good) instead of just the 4 bad ones. When they
pulled the p/l off number 3 had a broken ring and number 1 had a major melt
down happening. I asked if they heard it pinging and they said yes and it
showed. The machine shop was great and had the heads down in one day (they
usually take a week). 
  Wednesday they reasembled the engine and almost have it ready to
reinstall. It is missing the thermostat and the flaps!!! I did not have any
lying around so they are going with out till they find some on the road to
install. They did get the engine ready to install and have replaced all the
vaccum hoses and anything else that might be questionable. Looks good.
Remember this engine had been in a fire and hacked back together to just get
running to sell.
  Thrusday they plan on finishing up the little things, get the engine
installed and run around for the day to make sure everything is good, then
hit the road again on Friday.

  Their plan is to head down I 40 to Flagstaff then up to the Grand Canyon.
From there head over to the coast of Cali, see the Redwoods and head up
through Oregon, Washington onto Vancover, BC. In Vancover they need a place
to park the bus, as they want to take a train to Alaska. They have 2 Husky
dogs (real Swiss runs) that they want to take to Alaska to see their
homeland. 
   After the Alaska adventure they are heading East to New York. I have
tried to talk them into heading back down South and tavel through the
HEARTLAND of the U S where there seems to be tons of BUS PEOPLE they can
meet along the way.

to be continued

ronnie

ps. Clara and Diana p-mail me as they would really like to meet you both.
pps. HH or Karl, they would like to stop and see you guys and maybe Karl can
check the bus out to make sure it's OK for the long JOURNEY. I do not have
the knowlage of the type 2 fuel injected pancake engine to insure absolute
reliability
Subject: [T2] New house guest HELP


  Looks like I am getting a couple new guest at the shop. 2 guys from
Switzerland in a 79 Westy. They bought this westy in Cali and were headed to
Canada then New York when they had an engine problem in Needles, Cali. One
of them is a certified Swiss mechanic so I am going to let them pull and
rebuild the top end of their engine here. Wish them luck.
  If anybody would like to meet them along their journey p-mail me and I
will give them your phone number and address.
  I do not know their exact route yet and will post it to all list while
they are here. Very nice people on a across the U S and Canada tour (in
winter?)
  When they leave here they are going up to Canada, then Alaska, then east
to New York. I hope they will get to meet some of the great people on these
list during thir trip. I am also going to print out the Airs list for them.


ronnie
