Date: Fri, 21 Nov 2003 13:23:09 -0800 (PST)
From: Andrew Mueller <thedrewmueller(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Can't get a spark???

I have recently installed a new longblock.  I labeled
all the wires and didn't have any missing wires when i
connected them back up.  The gear drive was in the
correct place when i recieved the engine and it was
test run before being shipped, so i know i put that
in.  But when i go to start it just turns and turns. 
The fuel pump sounds like it was pumping.  What else
should I check to figure out why it wont start. Maybe
its not the spark?   

A few sidenotes, 1: I have a CA 83 Vanagon, 2: I
pulled one of the spark plugs and it looks dry and
fine - would it be wet with gas if it was sparking but
not gas was getting in there?  3:  when origninally
tightening down the starter the plastic on the
celonoid snapped, but i took it to a repair shop and
they put on a new cover and it seems to be working -
what do the two slide on wires go to and could that be
the problem - i'm pretty sure one is for the fuel pump
and it sounds like it is pumping, but what does the
other one go to.  Much appreciation for your help and
expertise in advance.

=====
Keep it positive
Drew
Washington, DC
'83 Air Cooled Westy "Winnie"

"Enjoy the outdoors, you're living in a painting"    -  Starke Mueller
Free Pop-Up Blocker - Get it now
http://companion.yahoo.com/
