From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Shawn Madison" <shawnm(-at-)harbornet.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 9 Oct 2003 08:39:12 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] looking for 48's or 44's for my type 4 motor

----- Original Message -----

> Just curious why IDF's vs IDA's?

IDA's are "race" carburetors. They can be made to run on the street by
drilling a third progression circiut, but then you still have to figure out
air filters for them, which can be costly if you're tight for space. IDA's
can run any kind of fuel (alcohol, methanol, etc, etc), as they don't have
any rubber diaphrams in them or anything to deteriorate. So if you have a
full out race car, and want to run alternate fuel, they're the best way to
go.

The IDF's are a street version of the carb, with full progression circuts,
and a standard air filter base to utilize. IDF's are also avaliable in
complete kits for T-4 engines so you don't have any guess work or custom
fabrication. IDF carbs are also smaller when it comes to thier outside
dimensions making them easier to fit into an engine bay. The throats are
still the same size, and venturi's are all offered in the same sizes (at
least by us).

I'm building a 2276cc with 48x38 Comp. Eliminator heads, Webcam 226 with
1.4:1 rockers, and a 1 7/8" header. I have a set of intake manifolds for
both IDA and IDF carburetors and when the engine is done, I am going to
offer my engine to be put on a dyno to do a side by side test of IDA's vs.
IDF's. Both sets of carbs will run the same size venturi's, and jetted to
run the same A/F ratio to settle it once and for all what difference in
power the two carbs will make, since it seems nobody seems to know for sure.
I'm betting they'll be within 1-2% of eachother.

Eric Allred
64 Bus
