Date: Fri, 12 Apr 2002 13:14:50 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Paul K." <ocsd50ae(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: gauges, ect

gene bergs temp stick is a great addition and will
alert you when you start to overheat no doubt but he
is dead wrong on the gauges.  sure, they are not
accurate and would cost more than the vehicle if they
were.  what they are great for though is trending.  if
you drive your van every day and the temp reads 190
day in and day out and then one day it creeps up to
200 you know you have a problem that would not be
addressed by the gene berg temp stick.  i for one
would get out of the van and go check to make sure
nothing is clogging up the fan, low oil level, ect.  i
believe that temp is your most important followed by
pressure and thirdly an amp gauge, not a volt meter. 
an amp gauge will tell you when your charging system
is going bad or has gone bad where a volt meter only
tells you what the battery is putting out which may
leave you on the side of the road somewhere you don't
want to be.  it really saved me back in 91 when i was
transfering up to idaho falls, id back in my navy
days.  i noticed that the amp gauge had flopped over
to the far negative side indicating that the generator
was dead.  i knew that i could make it to the next
stop a few miles up the road.  if i had had a volt
meter i would have still saw 12 volts only a bit
negative which just indicates a discharge and i might
have passed up that town and been stuck.  enough of my
rant and no offense to berg he is still the best game
in town.

paul kagel

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Tax Center - online filing with TurboTax
http://taxes.yahoo.com/
