From: "Christian Figenschou" <fig(-at-)zebrasafari.co.za>
To: "Vintagebus List" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 27 Sep 2002 17:50:57 +0200
Subject: Re: [VB] Friday fun: ID the mystery part

Hey Volks!

Well, it looks like everyone who responded correctly guessed
that the part is an air scoop of one sort or another. But
most volks guessed (incorrectly) that it is for fresh air
ventilation.

Only Ted Smith, who was the first to reply, suggested it
might be a scoop for engine cooling air, which is exactly
what it is. Ted your place in the Vintage Bus Minutiae Hall
of Fame is guaranteed!

The scoop comes from a South African-assembled 1967 single
cab. They were fitted as a pair on the back side of the cab,
with the scoops sticking out like ears on each side, to
collect cooling air from a less dusty area than next to the
rear wheels.

Note that to create the ducting space behind the cab, two
cab rear panels have been used, back-to-back. Note also the
small window cab rear panel as seen on pre-64? SCs.

The air is then channelled through ducts under the load bed
to the engine compartment.

This system is very similar to the Aus system where cooling
air is scooped above the windscreens, then ducted over the
cab and under the load bed to the engine.

I can't imagine why VWSA devised yet another way to do the
same thing. I have seen this system only on two SCs, both
assembled in SA in 1967. I don't know when SCs were first
assembled locally. Earlier SCs were imported fully built up.

Check out the pics:

http://vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2001521.JPG
http://vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2001520.JPG
http://vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2001519.JPG
http://vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2001518.JPG
http://vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2001517.JPG
http://vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2001516.JPG
http://vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2001514.JPG
http://vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2001512.JPG
http://vintagebus.com/gallery/image/2001513.JPG

fig
www.zebrasafari.co.za
www.mavenmedia.co.za
