Date: Tue, 9 Oct 2001 15:50:48 -0700 (PDT)
From: Eric <strandedvw(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Stranded in Colorado

Hello,
I have a 77 AFC Fuel injected bus. I have been
stranded all week in Frisco, Colorado...and its
getting cold. It was running fine until I patched a
rather large exhaust leak near my heat exchanger.
After I patched my exhaust I started the engine...it
ran for about five minutes then petered out. I have
been unable to start it ever since. It turns over fine
but fails to start. These are the things I have done
so far. Replaced condensor and points, Had ignition
coil tested at parts store. There is a spark going to
the plugs. Checked Fuel Filter and Fuel pump. Tested
cold start valve (I though it may be flooding it). The
engines turns over fine but its not fireing....it does
fire very briefly about every 10 times I try to start
it. One more tidbit of information that may be helpful
is on the first day it wouldnt start I tried to start
it by popping the clutch while going down a mountain.
It did sort of start while I popped the clutch going
in second (long steep road), But it would not
accelerate at all and would stall easily. Nothing I
have tried has worked. Could I have changed the vacuum
inside the engine when I repaired the exhaust leak?
Could the cold temperatures in mountains somehow
affected the cold start system? Also, I sprayed
starting fluid in the air intake and it failed to
spark! That usually would always make it run for a few
seconds at least...this may be a clue. I know you need
fuel,air and a spark. It seems I have fuel...Im almost
certain I have a spark (unless crankcase isnt
gounded?) What about air? ...could it be starved for
air??  Any suggestions anyone could give me would be
greatly appreciated..Im trying to get back to the
midwest to my job. Money is tight and it's getting
very cold.
Thanks to anyone who may help.


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Make a great connection at Yahoo! Personals.
http://personals.yahoo.com
