From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 11 Apr 2004 23:51:11 +0000
Subject: Installing new rings - hints

the public library has an on-line Chilton's database that anyone with a 
Fairfax VA library card can access.  Good access, many pictures, and you can 
drill down to get some good overview info.  Covers most popular autos.  [It 
helped a lot with my replacement of my Nissan front disk brakes this 
weekend.]

In no particular order, here are some of the hints I picked up from 10 
minutes surfing at the Fairfax VA library site.  All new stuff for me. All 
on a VW '78 Transporter   Any comments on the hints??

**********
[1] The bottoms of the cylinder barrels have a slight camfer to aid ring 
fitting [ what the heck is a camfer??]

[2] Check the piston diameter with a micrometer and compare the readings to 
the specifications. If the running clearance between the piston and cylinder 
wall is 0.008 in. (0.2mm) or greater, the cylinder and piston should be 
replaced by a set of the same size grading. If the cylinder shows no sign of 
excessive wear or damage, it is permissible to install a new piston and 
rings of the appropriate size.  [OK, but remember to get the cylinder walls 
honed]

[3] Heating the piston will aid in piston pin removal. To heat the piston, 
boil a clean rag in water and wrap it around the piston. You can fashion a 
pin remover by shaving an old piston pin down so that it will slide through 
the piston. Use it with a mallet to knock out the pin. Be sure to hold the 
piston when removing the pin so that the connecting rod is not bent.  [A 
boiled rag does not seem like a lot of heat.  I hope it helps.]

[4] If new rings are installed in a used piston, the ring ridge at the top 
of the cylinder bore must be removed with a ridge reamer. [I guess that will 
happen when I get the cylinder walls honed.  But I don't think the ridge, if 
it is there, will come in contact with the piston or the new rings.  I will 
load the piston from the bottom of the cylinder, not the top.]

[5] Install a circlip on each piston on the side toward the flywheel, 
indicated by the arrow on the top of the piston. Install each piston so the 
arrow points toward the flywheel. If necessary, heat the piston to 1670F 
(750C), then install the piston pin and fit the other circlip. Make sure the 
circlips are seated in their grooves properly.  [Again, that does not seem 
like a lot of heat]

[6] Since the piston pins are slightly offset from the piston centerline, 
make certain that the arrow on the piston crown points toward the flywheel 
end of the engine to ensure proper positioning of the piston pin  dimension 
(offset from centerline) should be 0.059 in. (1.5mm)  [Wow.  Now it makes 
sense about the arrows and marking everything so it can go back in the same 
spot.]

Wish me luck!!

And for youse guys going to EB 2004, I wish you a safe drive and a fond 
reunion.  Beep as you pass Fairfax VA on I-95, and stop for bargain gas at 
Woodbridge VA exit, route 123.

[[God, I love the '[ ]' bracket marks.  You don't have to remember to hold 
the shift key like you do for braces, parenthesis or angles!! ]]

Barry Burneskis
'72 Westy
'78 Westy

_________________________________________________________________
FREE pop-up blocking with the new MSN Toolbar  get it now! 
http://toolbar.msn.com/go/onm00200415ave/direct/01/
