From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
Date: Tue, 18 May 2004 21:52:16 -0700
Subject: Re: Suspension problems or is it tires?

OK....so I swapped all four of the wheels from my '61 to the '66.  They are
195 75R15's, and they are a two-ply sidewall, with a little better load
rating, but not quite as good as I'm now learning.  However, I did drive the
'61 from AZ on them, and they were fine.  I'm also comparing performance to
previously know driving characteristics.

Driving the bus indicates that the oversteering problem is still there, but
much more manageable. Still more when steering left.  If I am really
attentive, I can avoid feeling too anxious, and as I learn the wierdness, I
can better compensate.  I can definitely feel the difference in height,
though!

One thing I noticed is that when rounding a corner (especially to the left),
and I hit a bump, it excacerbates the problem.  According to the data I have
been poring over, this is because caster is too little....?  So...Experiment
#2:  I'll swap tires again, but only the fronts, and I'll have 195 75 14's
on the front, and 195 75 15's on the back.  If my mental geometry is
working, this will increase the caster, and alleviate the symptoms...what
the exact problem is, I don't know.

Note:  Since I have been driving this bus again, but prior to the suspension
work, I was happy with the way she handled, just not with the general
floppiness in the steering, and the knowledge that the right side had taken
a big whomp.  (Hard enough to bend the drag link up through the floor and
curl the lip of the right rim all the way over).  So...when I was driving,
prior to the suspension work, I had 195's on the back, and 175's on the
front, borrowed from another bus.  Smaller in front, bigger in back.  This
MUST mean something?

Fun reading, huh?

Gene Cornelius
mizamook(-at-)starband.net
