Date: Sun, 7 Jul 2002 08:59:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re:  more 009 timing questions

>my vac advance on the stock 050 distributor was
shot, so I had to drop in a 009. 

He is undoubtedly talking about a 205 dizzy that
ends in 050, rather than a 050 centrifugal only
dizzy.  

I see and here this kind of advice all the time,
"your vacuum is bad so buy one of my 009s."  But
the few dizzies (dual advance not straight vacuum
off the 68-ish vehicles) with bad vac pots I've
seen still have adequate centrifugal advance
(around 18-20 degrees) without the vacuum to be
at least as good as a 009.  

I would check this out before spending money on a
009.  And Bus Depot and Aircooled.net has rebuilt
dizzies that would be a world better for your
heavy bus than a 009 or 050 centrifugal only
dizzy.  

As for timing the 009 on a 1600 DP, I do not know
from experience but I'm told to time the engine
to 28 total advance.  (This seems like less than
what a dual advance stock dizzy found on circa 71
engines but that's what the others say.)   Since
your not timing you engine to stock specs, can
the pulley in favor of a degreed one.  Then check
the amount of advance your 009 provides.  They
vary widely I'm told.  Set the total advance and
you should check what your idle timing is also. 
With 28 degrees total and assuming a 009 that
provides about 18-20 degrees advance, your idle
timing will be around 8-10 BTDC.  

8-10 BTDC is the major problem.  This idle timing
will make your bus have a major flat spot off
idle.  And you won't have vacuum advance to
supplement your centrifugal advance when you
floor it and pop the clutch.  Just the evil you
have to put up with to run one of those 009.  Of
course, no other dizzy comes in chrome... with
clear or colored caps.  KEWL.  

Boston Bob's website lists some mods you can do
to richen the idle circuit (?) if you run a 34
carb.  Of course, for all that hassle, you could
have purchased a dual advance carb from Bus Depot
or Aircooled.net.





=====
Peace and blessings, 
Nemo, the Bus Captain

74 Westy For Sale:  http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain/index.html

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Sign up for SBC Yahoo! Dial - First Month Free
http://sbc.yahoo.com
