Date: Thu, 20 Jun 2002 12:03:21 -0700
To: Nick Palmer <nicholas(-at-)brigadoon.slackers.net>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Sorry! Tire Questions.

At 04:02 PM 6/19/2002, Nick Palmer wrote:

>It seems to me that it would be better to have the Ds on the back, and the
>C's in front, but I am concerned about the handling with the squishy tires
>in front. Thoughts on this?

I think it would be better to have the D's on the back since there is more 
weight there.

>On a slightly more off topic note, I put two new tires on my wifes truck,
>as she had tread separation on one of the old tires. It is front wheel
>drive, but the tire guy insisted that the new tires must go on the back,
>or the care will handle poorly. This doesn't jive with me, but what do I
>know? Is the tire guy right or what?

The tire guy is ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.  How about that, a tire guy actually 
giving good advice!  I would continue to do business with him if I were 
you.  To elaborate, you should always have the best tires on the rear of 
the car because you want the rear of the vehicle to have the best adhesion 
to the road, regardless of which wheels drive it.

Many years ago when I was in cub scouts, we had the Pinewood Derby 
competition.  Our denleader asked us the following question:  "If you 
locked the front wheels of the car and allowed it to roll/slide down an 
incline, would it go straight or spin?  How about the rear wheels?"   We 
all thought that the car would go straight with the rear wheels were locked 
and spin with the front wheels locked.  Well, we were completely 
wrong!  The denleader pushed in the nails on the front wheels so they 
wouldn't turn and let the cars go down a 4x8 sheet of plywood.  The car 
went straight.  When he locked the rear wheels, the car spun 
immediately.  We were dumbfounded.

So, if you were driving down a rainsoaked street with good rear tires and 
bald fronts and hit a patch of water, you may lose steering/braking 
momentarily when the front wheels hydroplane.  That's bad, but not as bad 
as what would happen if the situation were reversed.  If the bad tires were 
in the rear and the rear of the car lost traction, you would lose 
steering/braking permanently as you would probably be spinning into a 
ditch, or into oncoming traffic.

Some things you have to learn the hard way.  This past April I had to drive 
my Mustang to Oklahoma to have some custom exhaust work done.  My rear 
tires were about down to the wear indicators, but I don't drive the car on 
rainy days and I am careful with the acceleration on the street.  Well, the 
2-hour job turned into an all-day job and by the time I was back on the 
road to Texas, it was nighttime, and worse an unexpectedly heavy 
thunderstorm was in the area.  It began to rain.  I stopped for a 
tollbooth, and as I was starting off again, the rain got heavy.  I 
accelerated very gently up to about 55mph (in a 75 zone) and did not feel 
any hydroplaning at all, figured I was safe.  Then with no warning the rear 
end of the car came around.  No way to correct for it, no time to think, it 
happened way too fast.  I spun 2 times, crossed the grass median and hit a 
Suburban coming the other way, then spun again and went into a ditch on the 
side of the road.  Fortunately I hit the Suburban on the front drivers 
quarter panel and we both walked away.  A quote from a friend of mine who 
works for an accident-investigation firm, "I've seen two of those types of 
accidents in the past month and in both of them, everyone in "your" car 
died.".  I took these pictures the next day:

http://users2.ev1.net/~schwarze/mustang/wreck/DCP_2551.jpg
http://users2.ev1.net/~schwarze/mustang/wreck/DCP_2552.jpg
http://users2.ev1.net/~schwarze/mustang/wreck/DCP_2557.jpg

That experience changed my way of thinking from, "I'll put new tires on the 
rear when it's convenient" to "I'll put new tires on the rear NOW".  And "I 
will drive slower in the rain".  :)  You never know when circumstances 
and/or stupidity will conspire to test the limits of your vehicle.  With a 
bus, these limits are already low (brakes, center of gravity).  Of course, 
the best idea is to have nearly new tires on all four wheels, but if you're 
only getting two, put them in the rear, even if it's a front wheel drive car!!!

-David (getting older, but still learning)

