Date: Tue, 10 Jan 2006 15:47:05 -0500
From: Mad Uncle Dave <MadUncleDave(-at-)charter.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, NC BusCampers
Subject: Today's fun - workin' on the bus (cont)

I got several replies about the crack and the majority felt that I might 
as well clean it up, apply JB weld if I want, and see how far she'll 
take me.  I agree with this and so I finished cleaning the engine and 
tinware today.  With an oil leak of that size you can imagine what the 
fan shroud  was like.  I scrubbed with gas.  I scrubbed with diesel.  I 
sprayed 2 cans of Foamy Engine bright.  Still a layer of greasy dirt.  I 
thought for a while about what else will get greasy dirt.  I didn't have 
any TSP so the soak in hot TSP bath for a couple days was out if I 
wanted to begin putting it back together Thursday.  The grease part is 
the key.  I grabbed the shroud, took it over to a metal barrel with a 
galvy washtub on top, soaked it good with diesel and lit it up.  It 
burned really good.  Didn't get hot enough to make the shroud glow red 
because the engine bright seems to be a water base and moderated the 
flame temperature somewhat.  I could hear the grease crackling like 
bacon in a hot pan.  Once I was sure the fire would stay put I started 
cleaning up the cleanup mess.  After a while I went back and sure 
enough, most of the greasy dirt was now ash.  A few spots didn't get 
enough combustion cleaning so I soaked 'em good and lit it up again.  
This time I got the desired result - greasy dirt turned into dirt and ash.

This leaves me with picking the best looking heater boxes out of the 
pile and reassembly.  Oh yeah and cleanup of the bell housing, front 
seal replacement, endplay check, and cleaning of the firewall.  I think 
I'll forgo the combustion cleaning system for the bell housing and firewall.

MUD
