Date: Fri, 9 Dec 2005 16:03:33 -0800 (PST)
From: Karl von Salzen <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: Paul Guzyk <paullist(-at-)guzyk.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Need Help in Redding, CA - Non-VW Emergency

--- Paul Guzyk wrote:

 Hindsight is 20/20 but next time she should just
 sell her car "AS IS".
 
 She could have written a bill of sale saying
 something like "This car 
 is being sold for parts use only.  If the new owner
 intends to use it 
 on the road any necessary repairs will be the
 responsibility of the new owner."
 
 While you are *supposed* to smog cars before selling
 them, the California DMV will let you transfer
ownership
 without a smog certificate.
 
 The new owner will have to deal with the smog stuff
 if they decide to put the car on the road.
 
----------------------------------------------------------------

BAD and WRONG information!!!

If someone in Calif DMV is telling you that you can
sell a vehicle AS-IS, that is against the law. You
cannot do that. It HAS to be able to pass smog and
have a smog certificate issued and paid for by the
seller. NO way NO how can you transfer ownership
without it!

Read here:
http://www.smogcheck.ca.gov/stdpage.asp?Body=/GenInfo/Publications/Used_Vehicle_Smog_Equipment_Requirements-Jan_1993.htm#A%20Guide%20for%20the%20used%20Car%20Buyer

1ST paragragh: 

When a used vehicle is sold in California, the seller
is legally responsible for making sure that the
vehicle's emission (smog) control equipment complies
with state requirements. There is no provision in the
law allowing a seller to sell a vehicle "as is." The
buyer must submit the certificate of compliance (smog
certificate) to the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV)
when transferring registration of the vehicle. Without
the smog certificate, the transfer of ownership cannot
be completed.

3RD paragragh:

In private party transactions, the seller must provide
the buyer with a smog certificate prior to the
transfer of ownership. If the vehicle is purchased
from a dealer, the certificate should be provided as
part of the transfer documents. The certificate is
evidence that the vehicle meets state requirements for
smog equipment. A vehicle that has not been issued a
smog certificate cannot be registered. 
