From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 03 Feb 2004 19:23:42 +0000
Subject: Some Machine Shop Pricing

Here is a partial price list from a 'local' (outside of Annapolis Maryland) 
VW specialty machine shop.  It is interesting, not only for the pricing, so 
you can compare with your local machine shops, but for some of the 'tips'and 
thoughts.  Hope this helps.

* * * * * * * * http://evwparts.com/Machine.htm

B7	Engine Case Align Boring & Thrust Cutting.
      If there is a ridge on any of the main bearing journals that you can 
catch  your fingernail on, then your case needs align boring to hold those 
bearings tight and keep the oil pressure going to the bearings where it's 
needed.
     Just pack your case in a box, (you can leave the head studs in or take 
them out), and send it to us.   We'll clean the case for $30.00 and machine 
it as needed for $30.00,  plus $20.00 to ship it back to you.

B7	Pushrod Length Sizing
    When building an engine, if you add shims under the cylinders, you may 
need longer pushrods. We can machine new uncut pushrods to the correct 
length and install the ends for $30.00 set.

B7	Valve Guide Tapering
   Tapering the intake valve guides increases the flow of the intake mixture 
around the valve guide.  When doing a valve job or cylinder head porting, we 
can machine a taper on the valve guides before installation for $24.00 per 
set of four intake valve guides.

B7	Cylinder Head Boring
   Cylinder heads as well as engine cases need to be bored out for larger 
cylinders to fit.  We can bore out the heads for cylinder sizes like 88mm, 
90.5mm, 92mm, 94mm.  You can send us your complete heads and a cylinder if 
you have one or we can supply them.  We'll disassemble and clean them for 
$30.00 a pair, Bore them for $30.00 a pair,  plus $20.00 to ship back to 
you.

B7	Cylinder Head CC'ing
    In order to know or set your compression ratio, you need to know the 
volume of the combustion chambers.  When doing any other work on your heads, 
we can measure the cc's in the combustion chambers and supply you with a 
printout of the compression ratio for your size engine.  Add $15.00 to any 
cylinder head work.

B7	Cylinder Head Semi-Hemi Cutting
    This is an optional way to lower your compression without having to 
stack a lot of shims under the cylinders.  We can machine your heads 
combustion chambers in a Semi-Hemi shape, increasing the volume of the 
chamber, which lowers the compression ratio.  This is a good way to 
eliminate premature detonation or "pinging" when running regular low octane 
gas.  You can send us your complete heads.   We'll disassemble and clean 
them for $30.00 a pair, Semi-Hemi cut them for $30.00 a pair,  plus $20.00 
to ship back to you.

B7	Flywheel Resurfacing
    Replacing a clutch or overhauling an engine is the right time to 
resurface the flywheel.  If the clutch surface is scored or bluish in color, 
resurfacing will restore the correct surface for good clutch engagement.  We 
resurface step flywheels like Beetle, Bus, Vanagon, Rabbit, Scirocco, Golf, 
Jetta for $45.00 and flat flywheels like Fox for $30.00.

B7	Welding Aluminum
    If you have a broken exhaust mounting boss or a cracked or broken off 
cylinder head fin, we can repair it.  We can weld broken or cracked pieces 
of cylinder heads or anything else aluminum or steel.  We can only price the 
repair upon inspection.

B7	Removing Broken Studs or Bolts
    We can remove and replace those broken or damaged exhaust studs for 
$15.00 for the first one and $12.00 for each additional one while the 
cylinder heads are in for any other type work.
Broken drill or tap removal from the head are priced upon inspection.

B7	Ball Joints Pressed - Beetles $10.00 each   Buses $30.00 each


Barry Burneskis
'72 Westy
'78 Westy
Springfield VA
--
"Dad, when I grow up, I want to drive a VW bus."   The father kindly 
replied, "You can't do both son!"

_________________________________________________________________
Find high-speed net deals  comparison-shop your local providers here. 
https://broadband.msn.com
