Date: Thu, 05 Sep 2002 23:11:51 -0400
From: "Thomas W. May" <tmay3(-at-)cfl.rr.com>
To: <VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com>, Dave Wolfanger <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>,
Subject: Thank you!

Hi Everyone,

Well, thank you so much for the info on where to find my vin number. I went
to the DMV to license my bus, and in Florida when you register a new vehicl=
e
the person at the DMV personally checks the vin number on the title against
the number on the car. When I showed them the plate on the overhead vent,
they sent me to a special office to have it verified, because the vin numbe=
r
wasn=B9t on the dash where they thought it was supposed to be. So, armed with
my new found info (from Eric and Barb) I went to see the "experts" at the
"special" office. They didn't know where to look either, but I was able to
show them and they were able to issue my new plate. You guys taught me and
the "experts" at the DMV something new today, Thank you.

Tom May
Orlando, FL

P.S. I spent last Saturday under my bus, and had a great learning
experience. I gave the bus all new fluids (brake, gear oil, and motor oil),
bleed the brakes, pumped all the zerk fittings full of fresh grease,
inspected all the brake lines (all good, looked fairly new), readjusted the
stars, and made a slight adjustment to my master cylinder. It is running
beautifully, stopping firm, and I finally feel safe driving it. Thanks
Eric&barb, Dave, and Clara!


P.S.S. Dave, Thanks for pointing out the severity of these issues. I think
that my inexperience was making me try to find the easy fix. Now maybe the
streets of Orlando are a little safer!

