Date: Fri, 16 Dec 2011 11:09:27 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Automatic Vw Westfalia type 4 2000cc overheating

On Fri, Dec 16, 2011 at 1:13 AM, Mike Soultanian
<mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:

> So you'd think.  I'll be going up the Cajon Pass in California in 2nd gear
at about 4000 RPM at about 20 MPH with barely any load on the engine and the
stupid thing will hit 400!!!

Those are very interesting graphs. My first observation is that I
wouldn't consider going up the pass to be no load even at 20 mph, and
your load graphs reflect that. The 16.5:1 graph shows a fairly high
load, and the 14:1 graph shows an intermediate load.

The scale and resolution of the graphs are not good enough to get a
visual sense, but the min/max printouts give this interesting picture:

16.5:1

      min      max

1 - 297       399
2 - 288       362
3 - 318       406
4 - 305       389

14:1

1 - 297       399
2 - 288       362
3 - 318       406
4 - 305       389

So why are these temps identical for both AFRs? It would appear that
the min/max numbers include numbers for graph times not included in
these charts and that you did not reset the instrument between AFR
settings, which would mean that the min/max readings are irrelevant,
and that without a high-resolution graph scale, the plots here are
meaningless.

If these temps, however, are indicative of your real data, or at least
representative of the true performance of your temps under both AFRs,
then we might draw some conclusions. If the cylinders are only
behaving differently at 16.5:1, this was predicted by the GAMI article
for untuned induction when operating at lean of peak.

If this is also occurring at your 14:1 run, then we can conclude
vacuum leaks in the induction causing variable AFR across the
cylinders. I would suspect this to be the case because your AFR graph
is not steady. The wild fluctations in AFR, especially on a
gross-scale graph resolution indicate that for some reason the ECU is
not able to maintain steady AFRs. Is your ECU closed loop? If not,
then the AFR is solely at the mercy of the ECU program which assumes
perfect induction conditions.

My final thought is that I thought I remembered either you helping
someone, or someone else reporting a high temp problem that was
discovered to be caused by a worn camshaft. I know your engine is
recently rebuilt, but did you use a new cam, or have your cam checked
against spec before assembly? Also, have you been feeding your cam
enough ZDDP?

Oh, there is another thought. I did a research project to test for
enleanment overheating with ethanol fuels. Liquid Sun Energy published
my paper here:

http://liquidsunenergy.com/learning/ppt/Ethanol_Recommendations.pdf

At the time of publication, I sent the list an acknowledgement of your
contribution of the Raby article. But anyway, look over my study to
see if it helps you at all. If you live where you can buy E85, I
lowered the head temps on my Hyundai by 20 at WOT with E85. The
difference on an air-cooled head might be even more striking without
the water buffering. Of course, my Hyundai is closed-loop controlled,
but not at WOT. A contributing factor for running E85 in gasoline
vehicles appears to be the ECU adding LTFT to the injector pulse at
WOT (open loop modes actually).

Let us know how it goes. Best wishes,

John
