Date: Fri, 25 Jul 2003 07:50:21 -0700 (PDT)
From: Stan Brown <browns4s(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Ben <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>, type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] R: [T2] Trash into oil

Even though I have no interest in owning one, the
people that buy the SUV's do so because of choice,
freedom of choice (something many would perfer they
didn't have).  SUV's may be part of the problem but
not the only problem, they're just the vehicle that is
politically correct to rag on.  One day all cars will
get 50+ mpg and those that don't won't be allowed on
the road, and when that day comes we'll get that note
in the mail informing us that our bus no longer
conforms and it needs to be disposed of.

Well that is my nickles' worth to a thread that
started with a interesting article and has hopefully
bottomed out with what you see above.  Lets go back to
what we're here for, the Bus, and may it remain a part
of an active link to history for many generations to
enjoy.

Stan

< She is (and i am too) mad when she see guys driving
"ALONE" big V8 SUV, 
it seem to me that in the 80' we tried to go
economical & and 
ecological 
(by force I have to say!), where is that era gone, all
is back to 
normal 
now with our big car, truck, and SUV.  V10 are at our
door. >
