From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: "stevo" <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 21 Mar 2004 22:02:19 -0600
Subject: Re: silicon caulk  vs OEM oil cooler foam seal

> one question, why not replace with one of the 'new super' foams?

Hello,

I don't know that much about all the foams out there. I am a biochemist, I
know a lot of chemistry, but I am not an automotive engineer, or an
industrial engineer, or organic chemist, or whatever is needed to pick out
the correct foam according to its physical and chemical properties. The foam
has to be impervious to oil saturation deterioration. Hot oil is a great
solvent for a lot of plastics. The foam has to keep its structural integrity
at high temperatures also. The high temperatures can not cause it to get
soft enough to be blown away by the constant hot hot hot air flow.

I think that the original equipment foam gasket was an abysmal failure. I
have never seen an intact OE gasket. It is true that I have only seen old
100,000+ mile engines, but I think the foam gasket should have been
serviceable at least that long. Way before I got to those engines, the foam
gaskets had failed and shortened the life of the engine. The foam gaskets I
have seen had failed and allowed most of the cooling air to bypass the oil
cooler.

IMHO VW engineers really screwed up. The original foam gaskets failed due to
saturation with engine oil. The infinitesimal oil mist around the engine was
directed through the foam through the air flow. It is not all fresh air that
the cooling fan sucks in. The fresh air in the engine bay instantly turns
into gasoline vapor and oil mist impregnated engine bay air. The original
foam gasket was an "open cell" design, like a bath or sink sponge. The foam
had continuous passage tunnels all the way through it. So tiny amounts of
oil in the air could accumulate and saturate the foam gasket. That hot oil
and hot gasoline dissolved the foam. The hot air helped the oil to dissolve
the foam. The moving air itself abraded away the weakened foam. They should
have use a "closed cell" foam that would only get "oily wet" on its surface.

so what foam to use???? there are lots of foams to choose from. You need one
that is closed cell, impervious to engine oil mists and gasoline vapors. The
foam has to stand up to engine temperatures including the occasional excess
engine temperatures. Besides the chemical properties are the physical
properties. The foam has to be fit exactly. It has to be cut the exact
dimensions for a snug fit to seal off and direct the air flow but not so
tight to deform the oil cooler.

Silicon caulk is such a simple perfect application solution that I never
wanted to do all the necessary research and engineering testing to come up
with a better foam seal. The silicon caulk seal is impervious to the engine
chemicals. The silicon caulk can withstand the range of engine temperatures.
It is very easy to form the silicon caulk to the correct shape to seal the
air flow. However, the silicon caulk only sticks to a clean dry oil free
surface, so correct preparation is a must.

The only problem with the silicon caulk is the extra time it takes to apply
it during assembly and much much later to cut it away with a knife when it
is time for a valve job. So for the necessary empirical studies, I can
testify that the silicon caulk seal can survive 50,000+ miles and maintain a
perfect air seal. The silicon caulk is in almost perfect condition, just
like it was when it was applied. It is in such good condition that I am sure
that if you are really lazy and neglect the 50,000 mile valve jobs, I am
sure that the silicon caulk seal will last until you drop a valve and are
forced to rebuild your engine.

The original foam seal completely covered the outside of the oil cooler. You
do NOT completely cover the oil cooler with silicon caulk.You just have to
seal the edges of the tin to seal off the air flow to direct all the air
through the oil cooler. I apply the caulk such that it has one dimension of
at least ="+ thick bead of caulk, where the caulk has to bridge a gap. I
want the caulk to have some physical strength from bulk. In places where the
sheet metal directly touches other sheet metal. I apply a thick enough bead
to have some caulk ooze out to ensure that there are no missing gaps. If you
are really worried about appearance, use a wet finger to form the wet
uncured caulk ; but wait until the caulk has completely cured, so that it is
easy to use a single edge razor blade to cut away the extra caulk.

I am going to give the old VW engineers a break here. I suppose that they
chose the best foam that was available at the time. Some parts of an engine
just wear out and have to be replaced. Like rubber fuel lines and plastic
rubbing blocks in points. Everything in an engine has a limited life span.
However, the silicon caulk dog house oil cooler gasket will last a lot
longer than the OEM foam seal.

ggm

I admit I stole the following Ascii art from someone with much more artistic
ability than I have

_______
/_________\
(#[__][__][_][\
| | ~ |__| ]
~ =-/(O)\*~**/(O)\=
