Date: Fri, 2 Sep 2005 15:30:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: sam Josovitz <samuelvw(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: finally picking up my engine from Boston Bob

hey type2 listee i wrote to the list back in june
saiying how i was getting a new engine from boston bob
in Ma. so i spoke to him in the middle of august after
not speaking to him in a month when i got him on the
phone to told me when he cracked the block i brought
to him that was in my bus for 7 years it was filled
with silicone amd he did his measurements and he could
not bore it anymore basically it was a giant
paperweighthe was very suprised that it lated this
long he told me . So i was said great It took another
month and a trip to johns car corner in Vt for him to
find me a soild 1981 vanagon engine to get mine going
again. Now here it is September 2 he said his whole
project told was to finish my engine today and by
monday labor day before the sincomes up and my only
day off i am driving 2 1/2 hours to pick up my new
engine and luckly my friend had a soild core in the
back of hi garage i am bringing to him since Bob told
me he rather have a block then the 200.00. I know some
people would get impatient about waiting but i felt
the wait was well worth it i feel you pay more to get
the best and now i am getting the best engine for my
bus i sent him 1000 deposit so far and i am giving him
1300 more so i will fill the list in more detail in
the weeks to come when my new engine is in my bus and
i am driving her around town smiling ear to ear people
were suprised figuring i would get the engine back in
the middle of winter but anyway more information to
come everybody drive safe 

sincerely sam
Bridgeport, Ct 
76 bus
04 jetta
