Date: Mon, 27 Aug 2001 11:43:52 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Leske <bullimeister(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: BUS LIST <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Unauthorized email use (RE: flame from listee)

READ BELOW>>> I JUST RECIEVED THIS> Paul.

Paul, 

        Hi, my name is Mark Berke, and I just read on
the vintagebus post that 2 e-mails were sent from my
address to your mailbox on Friday the 24th. I am
looking into this situation and would like to
apologize to you and the vintagebus list for the
mis-representation for myself and my company I work
for. These e-mails were not sent by myself, or
co-worker of any sort from State Farm Insurance
Companies. I did have company with my office on Friday
the 24th and this computer was used for internet
access by someone else's children, which is against
regulation as well. I do know who is responsible and
will take neccesary action to prevent this from
happening again. I have been a list subscriber for
almost two years and an avid bus fan for many years,
and do not like or believe what I saw that was sent to
you and the list in my "sent box". I know what the
thread was and read thoroughly it on the post, and I
agree with all types of busses, primered, painted,
restored, whatever. I am fairly known as well on the
type 2 list (I also have a '77 bus), and I am not
known to be a jerk of any sort to my knowledge. I do
not approve of that kind of language either to use
toward other individuals/friends. Again, I do not want
my company or my office to be misrepresented, and
again,  I apologize for the rude and uneccesary
comments you recieved from my address/company. 

                                        Sincerely, 
                                                      
 Mark Berke. 03-1634 


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Make international calls for as low as $.04/minute with Yahoo! Messenger
http://phonecard.yahoo.com/
