Date: Tue, 12 Nov 2002 10:56:09 -0800 (PST)
From: Andrew Mueller <thedrewmueller(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Bus Depot and Hawaii

After reading that rather disturbing email to the list
I have a couple of comments.  To the guy in Hawaii -
whats the matter mon, not feelin very irie these days.
 Seems like the depot tried to help you out with
shipping and you got impatient which caused a whole
lot of more shipping.  Shouldn't you expect to wait a
couple of weeks to a month to get something out there,
I mean Hawaii is at least a six hour plane ride from
anywhere.  And in my experience as it also seems from
this one, kudos to Ron, once again coming through with
the bommer customer service.  He has always given me a
few bucks back if the post doesn't send the stuff in
the right amount of time.  Maybe the solution is to
have a tracking number on stuff going out to the
middle of the Pacific.  Anyway, I had to say something
since making out the bus depot like that isn't very
nice to do on a public list when they did everything
in their power to do right by you.  Peace and keep it positive

=====
Keep it positive
Drew
Denver, CO 80220
'83 Air Cooled Westy

"Enjoy the outdoors, you're living in a painting"    -  Starke Mueller
U2 on LAUNCH - Exclusive greatest hits videos
http://launch.yahoo.com/u2
