From: "Mike Anderson" <mikeanderso(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Mon, 12 Nov 2001 19:55:14 +0000
Subject: front end rebuild Q's

Hello everyone,

I've asked a couple front end questions to the list awhile ago, and received
some great advice.  As winter is approaching, I won't be able to haul my bus
to the autobody class behind a tow bar for much longer, and the bus will
most likely stay in the garage for the winter.  For my winter project, I'm
going to do something about my front end.  I posted about this earlier, I'm
pretty sure that I have some broken torsion springs inside the beam.  The
bus has a noticeable sag on the drivers side that need to be rectified.  The
way I see it, I have two options:  rebuild the beam I have, or swap it out
for a donor.  I'm leaning towards rebuilding right now, because even if I
could find a donor, who knows what condition it would be in, and would need
an overhaul anyway.  Everyone I know locally that has parts busses is
hanging on to their front ends, understandably, so I don't think getting one
is gonna happen.  I have a couple of questions:

First, my front beam is missing the posts that the rubber snubbers atttach
to on both sides.  It looks to me like they were cut off at some time.  I
know the snubbers were there to prevent harsh bottoming out, can I just
rebuild the front end, and tell myself that I don't really need them?  Or is
that an unsafe thing to do?

Second, my bus (chassis 1176847) has bushings on the torsion arms, not
bearings like the later beams had.  I may have found a set of NOS front end
needle bearings, and looking at the bentley, it seems as though there should
be no problem fitting them into the beam.  The only problem I can see is
that there is a bearing race that was pressed onto the torsion arms for the
needle bearing front ends.  The bushing torsion arms do not have this race.
Am I correct in my assumption that my torsion arms won't work with the
bearings without the inner race?  Anyone out there have experience fitting
the bearings into a bushing front beam?  Anybody have a stash of the inner
races lying around?  P/N 211 405 123 (Thanks to the doc project guys!)

I know that rebuiling front beams is not supposed to be very much fun, but I
would feel safer knowing that it is done, and that I did the work.  Should I 
tear into this beam, or just leave it for dead and hunt for a better one to 
start with?  Any
further advice, or warnings before I get started on this would be
appreciated, as always.

Mike A.
'64 SO-34/5 in Salt Lake City


_________________________________________________________________
Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com/intl.asp

