From: "Mike Anderson" <mikeanderso(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Wed, 03 Apr 2002 18:26:40 +0000
Subject: front end q's

Hello Everyone,

I haven't posted in awhile, but I have some questions.  I am in the process 
of replacing my torsion arm bushing, no anti-sway bar old front beam with a 
broken torsion spring with a torsion arm bearing, anti sway bar one that I 
pulled off a '66 at a junkyard.  I bought a new swing lever bushing kit and 
rented the reamer and tool from bus boys.  I installed the new bushings 
oriented correctly, and spun the reamer thru both bushings.  The bottom one 
was already where it needed to be, very little material removed.  The reamer 
took a little more off of the upper one, but in the end the reamer worked 
beautifully.  Installed the beam back on the bus (by myself, and with no 
floor jack.  That was alot of back and forth!), and put the swing lever pin 
in and it is *tight* in the upper bushing!  Pulled the pin, put the reamer 
thru one more time just to make sure, and nothing comes off.  All clear. The 
pin is still a tight fit, so I just hammer it through.  As it comes out the 
top, little brass flakes are falling from the pin forcing its way through.  
Put the pin all the way through and bolt up the swing lever.  It doesn't 
want to move around.  I still need to get a new zerk for the pin, so I have 
yet to grease it and try it then, but should it be that tight?  Should the 
pin just have slid right into position, or is it normal to have to 
"persuade" it to go through?  Is it possible for your swing lever pin to be 
too tight?

Next question.  Measuring the offset between my torsion arms to determine 
how many and where to put shims for the link pins.  Right side comes out at 
exactly 7mm.  Factory spec.  Do a little dance in the garage.  Left side 
comes out at 5.0 mm.  Factory limit is 7mm +/- 1.5mm.  I'm out of spec.  
Hang head in shame.  Bentley warns not to attempt straightening torsion 
arms, or inventing my own shim combination to make it work.  Sigh.  Parts 
manual says that I can't use my old torsion arms with the newer beam since 
the bearing beams have a race pressed onto the torsion arm.  So it appears I 
need at least one new torsion arm.  I'm hoping its the upper one that's 
bent, I really don't want to take off the sway bar.  Next thing to do is 
pull the upper arm off, and check it.  Maybe we'll get lucky.  Anyone have a 
procedure for checking torsion arms when you don't have the nifty check tool 
shown in the bentley?

Little devil on my shoulder says just to shim it as if the offset was 5.5 
and forget about it.  Little Eric&Barb angel on the other shoulder says to 
find a new torsion arm, and do it right.  Sigh.  Anyone out there have some 
'65 to 67 front torsion arms (part #211-498-103A) already disasssembled and 
not bent they'd be willing to sell me?  I know bus boys sells a set of 4 for 
$100, but at most I only need two.

On a side note, I got a set of reman. spindles from bus boys, they look 
awesome.  I can't wait to get them on.  As I was dissasembling the link pins 
from both of my beams so I could send the spindles back as cores, *all* of 
the link pin bearings were shot.  trashed.  And to think I thought of just 
bolting up the new beam and calling it good...

Trying to do it all right the first time...

Mike A.

'64 SO-34/5
Salt Lake City

_________________________________________________________________
Chat with friends online, try MSN Messenger: http://messenger.msn.com

