From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 22 Oct 2004 15:40:15 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] oil cooler seals

Jamie asked:
I need to change the oil cooler seals on my 1980 2.0 f.i. federal vanagon.

What is the easiest way to do this?


Chris replied:
I remove the fan shroud and fan. Then I can replace the crank seal and oil 
cooler seals,


Barry says:
Darn, I wish I had a 1980 2.0 f.i. federal vanagon,  instead of a 1978 2.0 
f.i. air conditioned federal type2.  It would have been so much simpler!!!

1) My first challenge was to get the AC compressor out of the engine 
compartment.  I tested and saw the lines had zero charge, so I took the top 
two lines off the compressor.  I used an adjustable crescent wrench and a 
long cheater bar.  Simple.

The four bolts at the base of the compressor were also simple, and the top 
bolt (with a whole family of shims) was a bit of a challenge,  but it took 
me FOREVER to find out that the bottom nut_on_a_stud was holding up the 
removal.  The STUD had to come out!!  Gloriously, it came out straight 
away!!  The compressor came up, with a black electrical wire connected to 
it..  I was lucky and I did not cut the wire. It was a simple plug that only 
looked like a splice.

2)  OK, I want to take the three rear cooling tins out.  But to do that I 
have to take the heat shield off.  And to do that, I have to take the 
muffler/crossover pipe off!!  With a little foresight, I previously had my 
mechanic use his torch and free up the 6 nuts (3 nuts/bolts, 3 nuts/studs) 
for the crossover pipe.  (I had previously replaced the muffler/tail pipe, 
so  I was in familiar territory)

3)  Now for the cooling tin.  Of course, there was nothing but fillister 
screws to be overcome.  But the '76 is absolutely rust free, with a covering 
of grease.  The fillisters were original, not touched by a previous driver.

I have two large screw drivers who's blades just fit the fillister head's 
groove.  The screwdrivers have a 10mm boxed shaft, so I guess you know where 
I am going.  I simply put the screwdriver in the fillister, put a 10mm open 
wrench on the screwdriver square shaft, and pushed and twisted 
(righty-tighty; lefty-loosey).  Wow, things are going great!!

4)  Opps, the oil filler neck has to come off.  That means the spring clamp 
is my next victim.  I have a heater hose clamp pliers from 40 years ago, 
used it a lot on water cooled cars.  No problem.  But the oil filler neck 
was probably never removed in the past, so it fought me.

Mostly the three pieces of cooling tin came off.  Just a few screws on the 
right needed attention/removal

I have removed the plastic fan grill, and the fan belt (skipping over a few 
steps here...)
and the fan and the air conditioning fan belt hub and the four bolts and the 
distributor and the coil, and the flaps over the heat exchanger-to-fan 
shroud, and al the fillisters on the left cooling tin (that were in the 
engine compartment!! - there are two more fillister screws that are in front 
(FIF) of the firewall that are nearly impossible to get at with the engine 
in sitsu) and the darn fan shroud would NOT MOVE!!

OK, I got under the bus and I did get one of the heat exchangers to 'drop' 
slightly by removing 3 nuts (frozen on nuts) on the left heat exchanger.

Still, no movement in the fan shroud!!

Wait a minute.  I had not taken the AC compressor's bracket off the fan 
shroud.  Sure enough, one of these four bolts was holding the bracket of the 
oil cooler on to the fan shroud, or, conversely, it was holding the fan 
shroud on to the oil cooler..

I still have one more heat exchanger to drop before I get to take the fan 
shroud off and rip up my dip stick boot.

6) I forgot this big one.  I pulled the left side air intake pipes (the left 
legs of the spider) off the engine.  Including the fuel line (remove fuel 
line from the ring - two points) and the head temp switch and some special 
temp switch that I asked about last week, which I have never seen before and 
you probably don't have it.

And of course the EGR pipe from the EGR vacuum controlled valve to the 
throttle.

And also the battery ground strap and the everything from the throttle  to 
the air filter and whatever else was in the way.

It has been such a project that I almost forgot what we are talking about.  
Oh, yes , the oil cooler seals.

Well, I guess that is for another time..  I still haven't gotten to the oil 
cooler yet.

Barry sends



Readers Digest. Illiterates die of intestinal blockage.

_________________________________________________________________
Dont just search. Find. Check out the new MSN Search! 
http://search.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200636ave/direct/01/
