Date: Fri, 23 Apr 2010 16:47:59 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Eastwood products.

Hey - happy Friday!!!

Hey Type II List - a Type II friend asked for more detail about what I 
use to fix rust. Here is my reply. It isn't the last word on anything 
but it is a method that I could afford and the results have been 
durable. Please improve on what I've written if you can. I like 
open-source collaboration...(Linux, Wikipedia, etc). Open-source VW 
restoration???

I almost NEVER recommend anything "over the counter" at a common FLAPS 
because there seems to be too much marketing and not enough "substance" 
to what they offer IMHO. Sort of like muffler tape and an "engine 
rebuild in a bottle".

Anything I linked to can be sourced from many different places and many 
different brands. Don't want to give any retailer any more cudos than 
any other.

What has happened to me is that having had the opportunity to 
occasionally use the professional stuff from the auto body supply store 
(every town has a couple) the stuff marketed to the average guy doesn't 
measure up as well anymore for me. Also come a family of Street Rodders 
so I have spoiled there too. I'm spoiled or maybe a car part snob... 
LOL! At the auto body supply store I can usually buy stuff in bulk or 
cheaper than the FLAPS offers if I need alot. On the other hand I don't 
need a gallon of this rust converter stuff at a time, I need a pint or two.

Hmmm, I think I want a pint or two of something else later today too... 
GRIN!

What I used was "Klean-Strip rust converter" from Auto Zone. I think 
several of the FLAPS offer the same brand/bottle of rust converter in 
their autobody supplies isle.

http://www.google.com/search?client=opera&rls=en&q=Klean-Strip+rust+converter&sourceid=opera

My method is: (critique at will) you need to get the steel as clean as 
you can. Sandblasting is ideal. I don't have easy access to that yet. 
So...wire brushing is good. I use a 4.5 inch angle grinder with a 
twisted wire brush wheel.

And the wire brush...

http://www.northerntool.com/shop/tools/product_200331804_200331804

The middle one in the bottom row.

My grinder is a DeWalt. I previously had a good Ryobi that we wore out 
one summer cutting bricks and installing air conditioners at an apt 
building for college money. Even Northern Tool/Harbor Freight/Mill and 
Mine have decent "cheap" grinders that won't last a decade but will last 
a project or so if you don't dog them too badly. Let the speed of the 
tool do the cutting, not a huge pressure on the tool.

http://www.northerntool.com/shop/tools/product_200374990_200374990

If you have access to a big air compressor (not just a tire pumper) you 
could invest in a $20 angle grinder instead.

http://www.northerntool.com/shop/tools/product_200342838_200342838

Then these little sanding wheels -

http://www.northerntool.com/shop/tools/product_200326508_200326508

Follow that with sandpaper in the corners where the wire brush or 
sanding wheel won't go.

Or switch to a wire brush with a wooden handle and work at it all 
afternoon. (Gotta do what ya gotta do).

And scrape any remaining loose paint and rust off with a flat blade 
screwdriver. GOT to get all the loose stuff off. Anything left behind 
shields the keeper steel from the rust converter and you stand a good 
chance that rust will come back through any paint you put over it. I was 
disturbed by the size of the chunks (flakes) of steel that were coming 
loose but in the end I had only a pinhole or two.

Clean up all the dust and dirt and rust after that. Use a vacuum, 
compressed air, leaf blower, brush - or all together in stages. Keep it 
out of the engine of course. Its a good job for that buddy that hangs 
around wanting to learn from you his master mechanic... GRIN! Now don't 
abuse the guy's good will... GRIN!

I also wiped the steel down with copious amounts of mineral spirits 
(cheap cleaner) followed by a quickie wipe down with lacquer thinner 
(expensive). The lacquer thinner is used to clean up the mineral 
spirits. Hold your breathe. Don't pass out. GRIN!

Sparks from the electric motors or grinding wheels might not mix well 
with the lacquer thinner fumes or any gasoline vapors. Something to 
consider...

http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&safe=off&client=opera&hs=e6N&rls=en&q=allmetal+filler&aq=f&aqi=&aql=&oq=&gs_rfai=

Aluminum Impregnated Body filler comes next, followed by much sanding 
and grinding, cleanup again, rust converter, coat #2 of rust converter 
if necessary, followed by primer, light sanding, cleanup (lacquer 
thinner in quick wipes so you don't dissolve the primer and wipe it 
away), then paint, and coat #2 of paint. I'm a big fan of the brush on 
Rustoleum paints now. Did this same procedure to fix some rusty spots in 
my Cabrio's rear floor and the paint is holding up very well.

You'll see in another message today that I found out that USC suggests 
bare metal or well aged paint under their aluminum impregnated fillers. 
The body shop guys seem to offer mixed messages on this. use your own 
judgment.

Don't bother with the rattle can paints for something like this b/c 
those paints have to be thinned down to spray out of the can. Rattlecans 
are fine for other applications, just not here.

Hope this method works out for you. It has done well for me. Let me know 
what you think or any new ideas that makes it better!

Have a great rainy weekend! LOL!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L Heinz-57 Edition (beloved mutt)
'97 VW Cabrio
'99 CR-V AWD
Brenderup 1205S
