From: Karl von Salzen <aufever(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 27 Jun 2008 20:37:33 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] hydraulic valve adjustment help

Nick said:

 Thanks for the info - I'll check the hardness of the lifters this
afternoon,though I don't understand why they would be silent post oil change
andpre-adjustment if they weren't already pumped up. Also, as it may pertainto
hard vs soft, when I screwed in the adjusters to set them, I couldn'tturn them
by hand once contact with the valve was made, I needed myscrewdriver and while
they wern't super tough to screw in, there wasdefinitely resistance. Yes, I
did turn the crank counterclockwise and I did use the position of therotor in
conjunction with the timing mark on the pulley to locate thecylinders. Sorry,
I've adjusted my motorcycle's valves many times, but this is my firstattempt
on my bus and particularly with hydraulic lifters. Thanks for any advice you
may have! In the mean time I'm gonna eat lunchand read the article at the link
you sent.

------------------------------------------------------

I tried the VW way of adjusting valves and found it to be the most idiotic and
confusing mumbo jumbo crap 40 years ago. Up down turn back up down turn
back.... is the dist in right? up down. Screw all that crap. Here is the
easiest fool-proof way to adjust the valves:

Get a remote starter button and forget that old school 'turn the engine
backwards CRAP' . Pop off both valve covers. Connect remote starter to the
starter battery post and the solenoid post. Press the button and watch ANY
pair of valves. When the exhaust JUST starts to move, STOP, and adjust that
cylinders intake valve. Press button again, exhaust will open then close,
intake will open then close. JUST as the intake closes, STOP, and adjust that
cylinders exhaust valve, Move on to next cylinder. Exhaust JUST starts to move
open, STOP, adjust intake. Intake JUST closes, STOP, adjust exhaust. Real easy
once you get the hang of it. None of that back-breaking up down up down CRAP.
Go under bus once and come up once DONE!

Does not matter WHERE the distributor is pointing. You don't even need one in
the engine. Does not matter WHERE the timing mark is pointing. You can test
that later.

And if you want to check your base setting of the distributor and the zero
mark of TDC 1 and 3: Watch #3 valves. Turn the engine in the direction of
rotation. The exhaust will open and then close. JUST as it closes, the intake
will start to open. STOP. You want both rocker arms at the point of rocking:
exhaust just closed and intake just about ready to move [VW has no real
overlap to worry about]. Stop. Look at the dist, the rotor should be pointing
at the index mark for #1. Look at the mark on the crank pully, it should be
dead on zero.
_________________________________________________________________
Need to know now? Get instant answers with Windows Live Messenger.
http://www.windowslive.com/messenger/connect_your_way.html?ocid=TXT_TAGLM_WL_
Refresh_messenger_062008
