Date: Thu, 29 Nov 2001 19:42:30 -0800 (PST)
From: Travis Harper <flowinkool(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vw <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: DArbeit(-at-)aol.com, _cjjj(-at-)net1inc.net, Soccrplyr222222(-at-)aol.com,
Subject: 1981 Vanagon for sale-San Diego

Hi all thanks for responding to my mail. My girlfriend
sent it out for me and I am sorry but my Van is not a
Westy it is a 1981 VW Vanagon camper van. It has an
ice box, sink and the closet in the rear with the over
head compartments. The front seats are both captains
chairs and the interior is in good condition. The van
is originally from San Francisco(no rust). I used to
live in Denver and picked it up out there. The folks
who drove it out there didnt have the best of luck and
the motor blew up on them. I had the engine rebuilt
and brought it back to San Diego. It now has 2,500
miles on it. Since I have been back I have replaced
the brake booster and master cylinder. The tires are
virtually new and the transaxle has no more than
30,000 miles on it as per the original owner, and it
is super tight. When I picked it up I looked it over
closely and everthing underneath is in great condition
and tight. I'm not 100% sure but I think that it has
A/c equipment in it also. I've never had A/C so I'm
not sure what it looks like, and I can't imagine what
else it would be. The outside of the bus is 97%
perfect. It has a small dent on the sliding door and
the rear bumper is missing. Other than that the Van is
in excellent shape. It is beige and the pop top is
white fiber glass. The pop top itself is also in
perfect condition. The screen that goes on the tent
door needs to be replaced and thats it. All of the
seals and weather stripping are in great condition.
I'm asking 5,300.00 OBO. I have all reciepts for the
work I've had done. My digital camera pooped out on me
so i dont have pics right this second but I will have
some buy the end of this weekend. If this Van sounds
like something you might be interested in then send me
an e-mail and I would be more than happy to send you
some pictures. I really regret having to sell my Van
but someone out there is going to get a heck of a deal
and a heck of a Van. This Vanagon is ready to drive
where ever it is you want to go and is problem free (
a rare thing for a volkswagen). Well again thanks for
the interest and I hope I can make someone happy out
there.



=====
Travis H.-Sand King Flowinkool

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! GeoCities - quick and easy web site hosting, just $8.95/month.
http://geocities.yahoo.com/ps/info1
