Date: Mon, 18 Aug 2003 09:34:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: re: lost gears

""Were having shifting troubles, we have lost reverse
and having trouble finding other gears.  As per the
normal shift pattern none of ours gears are in proper
order"""

--- I would bet a case of Guinness that it is the
shift
coupler. It is located just forward of the tranny. A
rod comes out of the tranny and the coupler is mounted
on that
rod with a sleeve. the bolt that holds it on to the
rod has a pointed end which fits into a dimple on the
rod. This bolt may have come loose or it is gone... if
it is there and tight then clean the coupler off so
you can see what is going on.. block the wheels and
then have someone shift throught the gears.. if the
coupler isnt moving the the rubber bushings are
probably shot.. if the cage moves but the rod from the
tranny doesnt follow then the sleeve that the rod goes
into could have broken loose from the cage. At any
rate, the shift rod from the tranny should follow
closely the action from the shift linkage rod that
runs from your shifter back to the shift coupler....
they run around $15.00.. the bus depot has em if you
cant get it from a local store.

=====
Dan Simmons
http://www.geocities.com/vw_bus_74/index.html

The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected.
