From: "John Connolly" <john(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Mike's Bus" <da-bus(-at-)sbcglobal.net>, "'Type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Thu, 26 Aug 2004 10:45:08 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] SVDA distributor

As a T2 list participant, I've been biting my tongue; I can't help but point
out that we introduced the Kadron Base Plate Modification 2 years ago to
compliment our SVDA, during which time almost everyone and their brother was
telling people the 009 was the shiznit, including other "list vendors". We
have been selling SVDAs for 5 years since we opened, I first developed ours
in the late 1980s. We even coined the SVDA and DVDA terms long ago, and now
they are commonly used to describe the units.

But even NOW most stores will tell you that you "need to have a 009", even
though I've put up an open wager of $5k in a SVDA/009 challenge, nobody has
taken me up on it (for good reason).

This past year the SVDA is the hot ticket, and vendors can make $ selling
them, so everyone and their brother has a SVDA for sale. Heck, some vendors
even have carburetors with a "SVAD ports" on them, LOL.

The 009 is a piece of junk. It will get you home, but will do so at a 15F
rise in oil temps and a 3-5mpg penalty over an SVDA.

We have the modified base plates in stock to ship within an hour of placing
the order, we do not modify them after the order is placed.

MikeL, your stock dist will work fine.

As you can tell, the bandwagon jumpers really frost me. Aluminum cases,
SVDAs, etc etc. Call it sour grapes, but it P's me off. Some vendors are
selling whatever they can sell to make a $ (even "changing their opinion"
after finding out the newly added part is complete garbage (did they give
suckers a refund?), while other shops/stores are trying to develop
innovative products. Many of these parts go against the "conventional
wisdom" at that point in time (much of which is completely wrong). You can
verify this by searching the list archives.

End of rant.

John
Aircooled.Net Inc.
