Date: Fri, 27 Aug 2004 11:38:54 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "DANIEL CURRAN" <DANIEL.CURRAN(-at-)learnlink.mcmaster.ca>
Subject: Summer VW Trip Pics

List;

I've been trying to find the time to finish writing up a trip report
from our recent (July 30th-Aug 16th) trip out west, our first in this bus.
However, I
can't seem to find the time, and it's mostly just for personal
memory/documentation anyway, so here is the real money - trip photos!

Briefly, Jacqueline and I took our newly R&R'd 74 Westy and the dog
and headed out for 17 days, the only two weeks of vacation I get this
year. We went north over Superior, up the Yellowhead to Edmonton and
thence to Jasper, where we met up with some of my family from BC,
down the Icefields Parkway to Banff, crossed over into BC past Radium
Hot Springs, Invermere, etc., down into the US for a couple of days
in Yellowstone, across the mountains to Cody, WY, then over to the
Black Hills in South Dakota (Mt. Rushmore, etc.), through the
Badlands, then hightailed it back across the midwest, over the top of
Michigan, and home via the ferry from Manitoulin Island.

Bus ran flawlessly. Only problem was the right rear shockmount bolt
sheared in half in the Black Hills (I thought it might have been a
shock blowout), and when replacing the rear KYB's, found that the
threaded end of the bolt was buried in the frame, and had to get a
local VW guy to help extract it. That whole ordeal was about a 24
hour delay. Otherwise, we cruised beautifully, only used 1/3rd - 1/2
litre of oil every 5000 kms, and I couldn't be happier with the van.

Pics can be seen here ;

[ http://pics.virtualm2.com/VWTrip/ ]http://pics.virtualm2.com/VWTrip/

Lengthy, wordy trip report to follow, if I ever get it finished. Hope
you enjoy the pics, we certainly had a great time taking them!

Dan Curran
74 Westy
Toronto
