Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2007 18:14:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Busaru Cooling, Take #2,147!

There seems to be a lot of interest in this (Where was
it 4 years ago!) So, here's a bit more on the subject:
The overheating problem was a combination of a couple
things, mostly the cam belt stretching so the
waterpump did not function optimally (which it has to
with 25 feet of "radiator hose!") and the failure of a
small hose at the thermostat housing which connects to
the heater loop, which is the thermostat bypass
(instant heat in the mornings!)

The cam belt is now new and the hose replaced; other
hoses checked, fresh antifreeze installed and a couple
hours of "burping" the system using my many bleeder
valves located in key places throughout the system. It
seems to be working well now, except for another
problem I was not aware of - the adjuster for the temp
at which the fan comes on is apparently failing and is
working sporadically. I also have suspicions about the
new thermostat I installed about a month ago. Both
will get attention soon.

I wrapped the copper tubing the entire length of the
bus with foam insulation. That made a major
improvement in the ability to keep the water hot. That
was done three years ago. In winter, I cover the lower
third of the radiator, blocking air.

The radiator is for a Toyota Forerunner & Toyota 4x4
trucks with V-6 engines. I selected that because I
wanted to be sure I had enough cooling. I returned the
Subaru radiator I had purchased. The Subaru rad was
probably 1/4 the cooling capacity of the Foreigner's.
Another reason I went for this radiator was that it is
very common, used for about a ten-year stretch, and
also, Flex-a-Lite, a local company here in Puget Sound
area, had a fan kit offered for it.

My original plans were for a rear-mounted radiator
that would mount within the engine door access and
hinge out from one end on a sub-frame. I would build a
custom grille to partially hide its ugliness! I was up
against a dealine and was about to be shot by the
garage owner, so I opted for the front - mount where I
KNEW there would be enough airflow.

The commonly held beliefs about rear radiators had me
scared. KEP, the people who make the adapters (and
probably the best source for conversion information)
told me that it was absolutely necessary to use an
engine-driven fan as the electrics are not powerful
enough, and that the air must be pulled in from the
back rather than pushed through from the front.
Furthermore, the "dead air" created by the wake of the
bus makes for a low pressure area right where you're
trying to draw air from and the faster you go, the
worse it gets.

All that is understandable, as is concern about where
intake air comes from except that I carved away all
the sheetmetal "floor" of my engine compartment and
there is room for a very large V-8 in there, so the
tiny Subaru (single overhead cams) has enough space
around it to fly the Enterprise through! My plan was
to have the airflow around the engine be the cooling
air. I expected to have to do some minimal ducting to
guide a bit more air than would randomly make it in
there as well as protect from tire spray.

Now as for why the thermostat allows the cooled water
to get into the engine: It takes a little while for
thermostats to open and close. I suspect that mine
does, indeed close when it gets a gulp of cold water,
as it usually gets back up to temp very quickly. Why
is there such a difference in coolant temp? It should
be pretty well diluted, heat-wise, throughout the
system after say, half an hour of driving, but it
isn't. My belief is that there isn't sufficient
constant flow and the waterpump is probably cavitating
at higher speeds until the coolant velocity catches
up. My theory is that if I switched to one inch pipes
instead of 1.25" (I was gonna use 1.5"!) I would
increase the velocity of the coolant flow all the time
and thus get a better mix and more consistent
temperature. Another possibility is to add an electric
booster pump ($$$).

As for my controls and gauges, the temp sensor that
operates the fan is mounted in the top of the
radiator, so it cools the radiator when coolant temp
IN THE RAD gets above a certain point. My coolant temp
gauge is at the engine, on the outlet tube (hot side.)
If I was to add a booster pump I would likely have it
controlled off of this sensor as it determines when
the engine actually needs more coolant.

The obvious solutions are to use a smaller radiator or
use a smaller radiator much closer to the engine, or
use two small radiators in the engine compartment OR
the solution that I was about to try before my truck
decided I'd driven it enough and crapped out on me,
forcing my hand to get the bus back on the road again
immediately, that is to add a bypass short of the
radiator with a valve in it that I can adjust from the
drivers seat, allowing more or less coolant to
circulate without going through the radiator at all. I
bought the parts, but didn't get the chance to install
them.

Refilling the flat cooling system is such a time
consuming PITA that I really did not want to have to
do it twice or more, so the idea was to make the
modifications before hitting the road again. Ah,
well... I hope this answers many of your questions and
casts some light on the why's of it all! Thanks to all
who contribute ideas and suggestions. -BaH



-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.


 
____________________________________________________________________________________
TV dinner still cooling? 
Check out "Tonight's Picks" on Yahoo! TV.
http://tv.yahoo.com/
