Date: Fri, 05 Apr 2002 19:33:47 -0800
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
To: Rhunes29(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] a sad day for the bus

I wrote the following a year and a half ago in response to the same question...

My thoughts haven't changed since then.

Jim

+++++++++++++++++++++++


Well, I *did* go beyond the first page and I'll share my comments with you.

First, remember that these guys are 'entertainers' not mechanics.  If you
regularly listen to them on NPR, you'll see that they're wrong more than
they're right.  And they screen the calls to get entertaining ones.

Here we go...

#1 Yugo.  Cheap car for cheap people.  TANSTAAFL.  If you wanted a
cheap FIAT, you bought a Yugo.

#2 Vega.  A lot of very high engineering bucks in a economy car.  The
aluminum engine was manufactured with the same processes used on the
Al 427. NOT a car for the masses. Was sold as one.  The Cosworth Vega
is *still* to die for! ($300 starter!  First one to use 'rare earth'
magnets.)

#3. Pinto.  If it was such a shitty car, why was Ford able to sell
significant quantities of them for over ten years?  The early 1.6
motor was/is the same Ford 105 engine that has powered thousands of
Formula Ford racecars.  The 2 liter is still the engine of choice in
the S2000 class. 2.3 was a good truck motor and is still avaiable in
the current production Ranger pickups. Just a lousy car I guess.
That's why there are so many of them still on the road.  I guess that
the boneyards won't take them.

#4. AMC Gremlin. Not a lot of redeeming features here except the
largest passenger compartment of any car in its class at the time.
Butt ugly, but about as dependable as an anvil.  A lot more of them on
the road today than Ford Mavericks.

#5. Chevette.  THE car of choice for RFD mail drivers. Not uncommon to
find them with over 300k on them. The Diesel is especially sought
after. As above... an anvil.

#6. Renault Le Car.  Funny, the picture is of an R5, not a Le Car.
Even RHD.  Paddy Hopkirk built one with an engine at both ends at the
time.  Was a real screamer.  They also offered one with a Gordini 1.6
motor in the back.  Another screamer.  If you want a Chevy Nova, get a
Chevy Nova.  Renault was winning a lot of F-1 races at the time and
the technology *did* transfer in the upper models.

#7. Dodge Aspen/Plymouth Volare.  MY car of choice for a teenager's
first car.  Replace the ignition module about once a year and drive it
forever.  With the slant 6 motor, you don't even *have* to change the
oil.  Just put gas in it and drive it. Good basic American automobile.

#8. Cadillac Cimmeron. Should have been #1.  A Chevy Cavalier with
leather seats.  The Cavaleir was junk.  So's this.

#9.  Dauphine.  The problem with Renault/Peugeot/Citroen in the US is
dealer support and a misunderstanding about American drivers. All are
absolutely fine automobiles, all suffered from folks that wanted to
put the cheapest gas they could find in them and drive them at 80 mph
over the Rockies.  I had an R10 tyhat was almost the most fun of any
car I ever owned. (The Mini was more fun! More work too.)

#10. Type II. Well, if they don't like it so much, they can give *ME*
the one in the picture.  The comments about heat are true.  The
comments about blowing over in the wind are true about all vans.  From
UPS vans to the old Chevy G30 I had.  Get used to it.  Probably true
about Diamlers finest too...

And that's what I think.


Jim
