Date: Fri, 5 Oct 2007 11:15:44 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <busvwzen(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: ovt <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: A disastrous day !(-at-)$#^(-at-)$^!(-at-)&(-at-)& Rotten!!  Crappy!! SUCKS OUT

Well, after thinking I had a problem with valves on my
1600 DP yesterday, and then realizing I made a dumb
mistake and realizing everything was fine, Now I am
really SCREWED!!
Let me back up a bit with my story, my wife is moving
out this weekend. Over, done, she has a new condo and
moving her stuff out this weekend, for me to be alone
from henceforth.
Well, wanting to be NOWHERE near while she was moving
her stuff out I decided that I would jump in the bus
and head up to Kelley's Island and maybe drown my
sorrows at a bus campout. But first, a couple of work
meetings this morning.  On my way, I start losing
power, hearing a serious pinging and start smelling
HOT!  So I pull over to find a shredded fan belt and
smoke everywhere. SON OF A B!TCH!!! The oil pressure
light never came on, so maybe, just maybe, it will be
OK. So I put on a new belt by the side of the road
while saying a prayer to the air-cooled gods. 
Then.......It wouldn't start, nothing, hot smell, me
crying!!  
So one tow truck and $160 later I get the bus home.  I
pull off the valve covers first and the unmistakeably
sickening smell of burnt oil pervades. Then I check
compression and get  90#, 60#, 30#, 20#
TOAST!!!! SON OF A BITCH!!!  Fried, no go, I'm wanting
to curl up in the fetal position right now and not get
back up.  
So, send a little karma my way this weekend, I am
needing it!
Also, if anyone can point me in the direction of a
good engine-rebuilder near Cincinnati, Ohio, that
would be nice too.
If anyone needs me, I'll be in the fetal position...

PEACE! John Baker
