From: "Bill Bowman" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>
To: "\(msge\) VintageBus List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 23 Dec 2002 16:52:36 -0600
Subject: #34hp or 40hp???

Hi all,

I think the initial question that I'm responding to had to do with whether a
muffler would fit or not...the listee wasn't sure whether the muffler he had
in his hands was correct for his application (I think the muffler had a DIN
horse power rating or something like that on it instead of a SAE horse power
rating).  To add to the confusion, or better yet, to help clear some of it up,
perhaps some of you out there are getting confused by, and therefore
misinterpreting the hp ratings while looking at old parts and labels.  I'm
certainly not the ultimate expert, but perhaps the following comments will
help a few of you out.

VW motors are rated in two rating systems in the various official VW factory
parts and Workshop Service manuals.  Up front in the "production survey"
section, in the very front of a official VW Parts manual, each type of engine
is rated in both it's "DIN bhp" (a European DIN horsepower rating system - I
believe the bhp stands for "brake horse power"), and also in the motors' "SAE
hp" ( an "Society of Automotive Engineers" SAE horsepower rating system - with
"hp" standing for horse power).  Two distinct and separate rating systems.

Now, back in the part description pages of the official VW Parts manual, the
only references to horsepower ratings in the description columns behind a
particular part are the "DIN bhp" ratings, not the "SAE hp" ratings.  Most, if
not all "real" NOS VW parts labels will only refer to the DIN bhp ratings -
SAE hp ratings will not be mentioned.  The following background info refers
mostly to Type 2 production from 1950 through 1970 or so...

When we Americans talk in general terms about a 1200 cc "25 hp motor", what we
are really talking about is a 25 DIN bhp rated motor which is also a 30 SAE hp
rated motor (used up through March 1953).  When we mention a 1200 cc 30 DIN
bhp motor, we're also talking about a 36 SAE hp motor (like the earlier motor,
this one has the built-in generator stand used up until May 1959 in the Bus).
The next progression was the 1200 cc 34 DIN bhp motor which is also a 40 SAE
hp motor (this one had the newly designed case with the removable, bolt-on
generator stand - in the Type 2 the first version of this was the infamous
"Bastard" motor).  Then there was a 1300 cc 37 DIN bhp / 47 SAE hp motor (used
in Type 1's starting with the 1966 models).  There was also another 1300 cc 40
DIN bhp / 50 SAE hp motor (starting in Aug of 1965 in Type 1's).  The 1500 cc
42 DIN bhp / 40 SAE hp motor was installed stock in the Bus in Jan 1963.  The
1500 cc DIN bhp / 44 SAE hp motors with the "H" case numbers started in Aug of
1965 ('66 model year).  For Busses, the next progression wasn't until the 1600
cc 47 DIN bhp / 45 SAE hp motor came out as an M157 option as early as Aug of
1967 (a "B" numbered case).  In August of 1970 the 1600 cc 50 DIN bhp / 48 SAE
hp motor appeared standard in Busses (with an "AE" numbered case).  And so on
and so on...

So, the next time that you're at a swap meet or digging through some dusty old
dealership warehouse full of NOS VW stuff (I can dream, can't I?) and you're
looking at that NOS boxed motor part with the VW German label that says it's
for use on a 30 ps or 30 bhp motor, now you'll know the part's SAE rating and
application by using the numbers that I've provided above.  I hope this helps
some of you parts hunters out there!

Merry Christmas to you all!

Bill Bowman
NEATO
