From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 17 Sep 2006 20:22:54 -0400
Subject: Buses By the Beach - Thank you for a real good time!

Hello Fellow Bus Pilots!

Thank you for an awesome time! Bus Boo was a huge success! The weather was
perfect and the company was even better. There was a huge turnout of Bus
Pilots! It was great to see all the new faces and to see everyone that
traveled so far to be with us.

 

We are just sitting here with big smiles on our faces thinking of how much
fun it was. Thank you to everyone that volunteered to make the Chili Cook
Off, Breakfast Burrito, and Halloween Costume & site decoration contest a
great success! Also thank you to those that purchased t-shirts and donated
to Buses By the Beach. Through your efforts this weekend we raised a $1000.
That money will be two times matched by a Charitable Giving Foundation for
an additional $2000 for a total of $3000 for the Phoenix Society for Burn
Survivors! Thank you!!! http://www.phoenix-society.org/

 

All of us at Buses By the Beach are very happy to announce that though our
efforts, the efforts of the West Michigan Burn Survivor Car Show and our
Gold Level Sponsor GoWesty, we have raised $10,000 in the 2005/2006 Fiscal
year. That money was run through a two times matching grant foundation for
an additional $20,000 for a total $30,000 that was donated to the Phoenix
Society For Burn Survivors.

This takes our total contributions to Burn Survivor programs close to
$50,000 in our four year history. This great achievement would not have
happened without the love and support from wonderful Bus Pilots like you.
Thank you!

If you had a wonderful time this weekend also, I would encourage you to take
a moment and please leave a message on our Buses By the Beach Forum to share
our experiences with others that might be considering coming to one of our
events. Go to http://busesbythebeach.proboards43.com/index.cgi?board=talk to
view the BBB Forum.

 

We would also like your pictures for our web site. If you have pictures you
would like to share please email our Web Master Billy Hirt to discuss the
best way to get the pictures to him. He can be reached at
zbillman(-at-)comcast.net

 

Hope everyone had a smooth and safe trip home and we will be looking forward
to being with you again next time!

 

Wishing you many miles of smiles!

 

The Volks at Buses By the Beach

 

Coming Events:

Bus BRR! February 10th - 11th 2007 Angola, IN

Bus Benefit! May 18th - 20th 2007 Grand Rapids, MI 

Bus Boo! September 14th - 16th 2007 Grand Rapids, MI 

 

For more information go to: www.busesbythebeach.com
<file:///C:\Documents%20and%20Settings\HP_Administrator\Application%20Data\M
icrosoft\Signatures\www.busesbythebeach.com> 
