Date: Wed, 24 Apr 2002 21:54:10 -0700 (PDT)
From: Matthew Henricks <mjhenks(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2 <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: More on NOS round mirrors.  I need some help.

Thanks to all who have already helped.  I have been
looking over the 3 different types of mirrors i have
and wanted to do a compairison.  What i have is:

Reproduction mirror i bought from Ronnie that has the
correct markings on the back of the mirror

My OG mirror that is on my bus

A supposed NOS mirror that i am trying to validate.

What i would like help with is measuring a few parts
of the mirror.  I have noticed some distinct
differences between my OG mirror, NOS mirror and the
repro.  I know there are more then one repro unit
being made so i would like to get a few of you to
measure yours.  Both OG and repro.

1.  What is the width of the crimped part of the
mirror?  Not the OD, the thickness of the crimp that
holds the mirror in place.  (I think the OG/NOS ones
are thinner then the repros)

2.  What is the diameter and height of the base of the
post.  Not where the number markings are but the base
of the actual post.  (I think the OG/NOS ones are
smaller in diameter and taller)

3.  What is the diameter of the post just under the
ball portion of it.  The top of the tapered neck. 
(OG/NOS is smaller)

4.  What is the size of the numbers stamped into the
back side?  (OG/NOS is larger)

Other observations i have made are that all 3 have a
very defined step where the mirror crimp transitions
to the domed back.  Also, the OG/NOS ones seam to have
the glass more firmly held in place as the Repro unit
seams to "rattle" when i shake it.

My OG unit has a high shine/polish to it.  I know it
has been polished though.  The NOS one i have is dull
and shows very slight grain marks from the aluminum
while the repro is very dull and looks clear coated.

Thanks for the help.  I think i do in fact have a NOS
mirror here but hope that thru this info i can confirm
that by finding that all the repro units out there
vary like mine does.

Matthew



__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Games - play chess, backgammon, pool and more
http://games.yahoo.com/
