Date: Mon, 18 Jul 2005 08:09:52 -0800
From: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: driving a stretch with 25 ferrari powered people

i was returning home from my lap around the country and found myself in an
unusual situation saturday afternoon. heading west on 14 in southern
washington state i was practically run over by a ferarri run. and they were
crazy, taking chances. no conditions while taking over the double yellow
line. what gangsters. no eating a sandwich and driving one of those. anybody
see that between umatilla, oregon and halfway across the s-s-s-state! i
caught them coming and going. on the coming they had an audi dug into the
line; on the way back there was a beemer. i of course gave up before i was
in the race even though i was on the track. of course i'd been passed by
little old ladies for 2.5 months. and at 60mph with a salami sandwich in my
hand all i could do was laugh a lot out loud and not choke for fear of
rolling the new ace of the fleet into the columbia river.

no tally on mileage and repairs, but i did have 100% fun. i took my 69
sunroof [fweem] leaving the 75 westy [not fweem] behind. the rough loop
looks like this. eugene/ chico [replaced crank, two rods, bearings $200. too
crazy for full airs report at the time, but a fabulous magical airs stop
with my wife and three children aged 2 thru 8. yes, saved early on by
airs!]/ joshua tree [big chill and bake chillum break]/ prescott/ madrid,
n.m./ santa fe/ paris, tx./ texarcana/ natchez/ hwy84 across alabama/
brunswick/ charleston/ okracoke-hatteras/ absecon island-brigantine/
philly-easton/ oneonta-woodstock/ lenox/ montpelier-burlington/ montreal
[jazzfest]/ sault st. marie/ marquette/ duluth/ bemidji/ minot/ glasgow/
havre/ missoula/ lewiston, id./ walla walla/ vancouver, wa./ eugene.

phew, the trip of a lifetime. the only tools i wished i brought were snap
ring pliers and a tack dwell. one i borrowed, one i bought near sacto. the
other thing i wish i had was a lap top. that would have been great so to
stay better in touch with people, but being basically unplugged has its
place and time. saw nearly no aircooled buses until missoula - where i saw
many rusting and for sale.

lots of love out there for the red sunroof, but at times it felt like part
of a circus as if i was in a stretch limo.   - steve
