Date: Mon, 19 Mar 2007 13:03:09 -0400
From: Michael Benthin <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: Gary Watts <garyb(-at-)fatmedia.com>, Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Dumb Clutch Question.-2nd try

Normally, not being able to shift when driving and clutch goes to floor
sometimes but shifts OK when not running says trans is ok, but clutch
release is wrong somewhere- broken/stretched cable, release bearing or
the arms pushing that bearing are broken/disconnected, or even a binding
clutch disk or pilot needle bearing not letting the disk spin freely
relative to the flywheel. I assume that by adjustment you have verified
that the arm the cable attaches to is being pulled down fully when
someone steps on the clutch?  The cable may be fine but pedal will fall
to the floor after pushing it  if the release mechanism does not come
back from its "pressure plate being pushed condition"- ie, something is
blocking it.  Did you try putting it in 1st gear (engine off) pushing in
the cl. pedal, and then starting it- if it lurches forward you still
have hold between the clutch disk and the engine/trans connection. This
is the norm to start the car if cable is shot (Little Miss Sunshine
goofed on that one)-If it lurches slightly and starts to smell burny as
engine revs too much, then you have partial hold, as in clutch
adjustment or release mechanism only going part of the way. The burning
smell is from the clutch disk  still spinning relative to the flywheel
and pressure plate it should be sandwiched in.  I had similar symptoms
when the flywheel side of the disk literally came off its rivets and was
"imacted" into the sides of the flywheel to cause incomplete release and
thus poor shifting or lurching when I thought it was out of gear when
starting- it still ran, but lurched as I think the disk would spin now
and then.  Either way, if the cable is fine, then you must pull the
engine and look.  I had quite a shock when I pulled mine, as that disk
had about 60K on it (my first plate went 150,000 mi and was still good
when I replaced it with this "assembled in Canada" Sachs one.

  .   .Mike Benthin in NJ             __ |
  .247K mi on original engine  ______/__\|    (63 panel camper sold)
  .   .   .                  /=__==__===_=\         75 bus
  . . . . 78 VW Camper   -T-|E[__][__]|[_]\\       (77 Westy-sold)
  .  .  . all over USA    0 |  _  |  `|__   |}     (77 Westy-parted)
  .   .                     =-(_)-----(_)`--=   (71 Westy rusto in woods)
                                                 (74 Westy-parted)
