From: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com
Date: Wed, 21 Nov 2001 20:55:24 -0600
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com, cvve(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: What I've been up to...

Well, in the free time here and there that I HAVN'T been working on 
my wife's car, I've been gathering up more busses and parts. Over the 
last few months I brought home a '72 hardtop westy and a '67 
deluxe...both of which I really don't need. Something's definatly 
wrong with me! I have, however, also been collecting parts I do need 
for my future T4 engine project.

I've got a '62 23-window Deluxe: http://www.type2guy.com/62/62.html . 
It's a project that I want to do up right, so it's kinda last on the 
list. That way I can scrounge up parts and build up "VW equity" so 
when the time comes if I need to sell a car for $$$, I'll be able to.

I have plans to build up a late-bus 2000cc T4 engine for my deluxe. 
It'll be a Do It Yourself upright conversion using Joe Cali's Manual 
(http://home.att.net/~NEXTGEN/). I'm also working on plans to swap 
the front beam for a baywindow balljoint one and ad the baywindow 
disc brake setup. In the rear I'm gonna install the baywindow IRS 
setup and will most likely install a late 70's baywindow 091 
Transmission. After driving my '59 Kombi to and from work about 60 
miles a day...mostly on the HWY....I've realized I want "a little 
more" from a bus. I don't want to drive a bay so I'm gonna do my 
deluxe up the way I want it and be done with it. It'll be mostly 
stock looking, but will be a split-bus highway cruiser!

The plan has been to collect parts as good deals come along. I've got 
the time and this is a really good way to save money. So far I've got 
(4) T4 engines....a 1700cc, (2) 1800cc's, and a 2000cc. I got 2 of 
'em in a trade and the other 2 I paid a guy $100 for. There's plenty 
of good stuff there so I'll probably end up building up an extra T4 
with the best of the left over parts. I don't know what vehicle I'll 
put it in...but I might as well do it since I've got the stuff. I've 
got all the tin for all 4 engines plus extra. Also have lots of 
exhaust setups, carbs, ect. Plenty to work with for sure.

Tonight I tore apart the 2000cc since that's the one I need the 
internals from. 2 of the pistons were frozen to the connecting rods 
at the pins. The guy I got it from started splitting the case with 
the pistons on there I guess thinking he could slide them through. Oh 
well. It was a pain in the ass, but I eventually got all the pins out 
of the pistons and got the case apart. I was surprised to see that 
this case is in really good shape. He told me it was bad. But it's 
not. I had planned on using one of the earlier cases, but it's nice 
to know I've got another good one to choose from. Everything inside 
looked fine. I havn't done a REAL good check on it all, but I know I 
at least have good cores...which is what I bought it for in the first 
place. But at first glance it seems I'll be able to re-use some of 
those parts.

When I visited Jim Share in Abilene a while back, he took me to a 
junkyard there that has a bunch of old busses. Ed Maikranz was with 
us and helped me spot a '68 bus (he got stung by a bee doing it!). 
I'm gonna go back and grab the front beam off of it and the rear 
springplates as well as some of the IRS stuff. I still have to hunt 
down a late 70's bus with the tranny still in it....though I may end 
up saving up the cash and just buying a fresh one from a rebuilder. 
Don't know for sure.

So that's what I've been doing when I can sneak away from my wife's 
bug. By the way, her bug is coming along good. I'm just a slow 
worker. Keeps if fun for me that way though. I've got the first coat 
of filler primer sanded and will be spraying some on again soon. So 
it's getting closer to painting time for it.
-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Check out my VW bus page at http://www.type2guy.com/
Rex Rogers           -'59 Kombi "Stimpy"  -'62 23-window walk-thru Deluxe
San Angelo, Tx.    -'59 Euro Single-Cab
rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
