From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 30 Dec 2003 21:30:28 +0000
Subject: Gotta get it off my chest...

Got to share with my friends out there:

I am putting my '72 together with the intention of passing it on to another 
owner, someone who will have the enjoyment I will miss when they get the '72 
into proud running shape.

But here is the rub. On the '72, the 210mm clutch disc is entirely 
serviceable, and passed inspection of a second party, a local guru.  But for 
me, I am finding it difficult to leave the old clutch disk in, when a 
replacement costs just $40 + shipping.  Would I replace the clutch disc if I 
were to keep the '72??  Definitely, YES!!  Will it last another 20k miles.  
Same answer.

But even with the engine out, I have to let the new clutch disc go, and the 
shift rod boot go, and the two heater cables go, and not put on the brand 
new clutch cable, and on and on.

Why??  Because I just know that when I sell the '72, someone will come by, 
and ask me to come down in my price (whatever that might be).

Sure, I will be glad to reduce the price, and I will even throw in a full 
tank of gas.

What I will NOT give that new owner is the 15-20 oil filters that I have nor 
the extra one or two fuel pumps, the brand new early bay bra, the absolutely 
new pop top canvas and absolutely new front seat covers and the full width 
folding bed rear seat with a full width cushion over the engine compartment 
that goes with it, nor the special wire shelves for the ice box nor the 
early bay clock nor the brand new, one year only wiper arms and wiper blades 
or the extra windows nor the rug for the back or the 3/4 rear seat and seat 
level side cabinets ....  nor the near new Michelin tires, nor the brand new 
extra '72 front disk pads nor the pairs of new rear shoes nor the extra 
brake hardware nor the extra 32-34 PDSIT 2/3 carbs nor the NOS PDSIT rebuild 
kits  ....  nor the extra pairs of front seats, nor the extra two early bay 
steering wheels,   ...  nor the NOS set of 1700 P&C, nor the beautiful set 
of orange late bay curtains, nor the other very, very special items that I 
am sure would not be appreciated.

Sorry, I guess I will just put the engine in and put the battery on the 
other side while I wait for my battery tray.

Get it running, cleaned up and sold.  (nor the registered original 1972 
antique Virginia plates, nor the ....)

Barry Burneskis
'72 Westy
'78 Westy
Springfield VA
--
"Dad, when I grow up, I want to drive a VW bus."   The father kindly 
replied, "You can't do EITHER, my son!"

_________________________________________________________________
Make your home warm and cozy this winter with tips from MSN House & Home.  
http://special.msn.com/home/warmhome.armx
