From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 31 Dec 2003 13:07:13 -0500
Subject: Side Tents for $49!  (Factory seconds)

We have an updated version of our budget-priced side-tent coming this
spring, and need to clear out the "bottom of the barrel" of our 2003
model inventory.

I have about a dozen units that were defective returns from customers.
These could have been returned for any reason at all - loose stitching,
a stuck zipper, a cosmetic flaw, a rip, a missing part, etc. It is even
conceivable that a few are perfectly fine but were deemed defective due
to "user error," as we did not actually try to assemble each returned
tent to confirm the alleged defect. 

These tents were originally $199.95.  These "seconds" are $49.95 (plus
shipping).  All sales are final; absolutely NO returns, exchanges, or
warranty. You get what you get; hence the low price. Odds are that the
the vast majority, if not all, can be relatively easily
repaired/modified to work (for example, I've seen a few with only a bit
of loose stitching, nothing that half an hour with a needle and thread
wouldn't fix), but I can't guarantee this. You could probably increase
your odds by buying two; if you turn two tents into one you still paid
half price, and if you get both working you can probably sell one for
what you paid for both. I may have a few extra poles lying around, so if
you get one that's missing a pole and I happen to have a spare, I'll
send it to you separately for the cost of shipping. 

Since quantities are limited, these will be first come first serve. I'll
try to pull them off the website as soon as they're gone, but if they
sell out before I remove the page, orders will be filled in the order
received.

The following link has a picture and description, and you can order from
the link:

http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=A0097


On a similar note, we have a few of our $79 budget-priced awnings left,
and need to clear them out as well to make room for the upcoming new
model. These are brand new stock, NOT seconds, and are $79. The optional
side wall, which was originally $50 extra, is now $19.95 with purchase
of the awning, so you can get the whole package for under $100. (Or
order two side walls, and the awning can be enclosed on all but one
side, almost like a tent.) The side walls simply attach with velcro
loops when desired.

Link for awning (with picture):

http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=A9032

Link for optional wall:

http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=A9033

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
