From: "tank" <bedhead(-at-)pacbell.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 30 Sep 2004 09:47:15 -0700
Subject: various carb, distributor and case questions on a '71

Hi. I am (still) troubleshooting my '71 Campmobile, Alice -- a project that
began when I purchased her in boxes a year and a half ago. She can run since
assembly, but not well. I am currently working on several issues, primarily
that I suspect her of having an air leak somewhere. (I'll start on this
tomorrow, and I am thinking the leak is at one or two of the manifold
connections. At least one looks suspicious.)

In the process of narrowing down the various issues plaguing her, I've been
questioning and probing into everything about this engine. Here are a few
issues I would like feedback on, hopefully without starting any flame wars.

1) I have looked in the Library, and I have even checked the Bosch website
itself; both state that I should have either a 0 231 167 055 or 0 231 173
001 in my bus. Two very reliable sources in my area -- one of which only
does VWs -- say that they cannot lay their hands on these and that the 0 231
178 009 (with no vacuum lines) I have in there is fine, really. It should
give better performance, they say. I understand from looking in the Library
that an 009 *may* work... (remember: no flame war, please)... but is it
really the *best* thing to have in there? I've seen other possible
aftermarket options, like ANC's SVDA
http://www.aircooled.net/new-bin/viewproductdetail.php?keyword2=IGD0001&cartid=0929200452269179
and Mallory
http://www.aircooled.net/new-bin/viewproductdetail.php?keyword2=IGD0003&cartid=0929200452269179
units, and I have had to wonder if I could be using something better.
Differing opinions abound, I am sure.

2) My old carb had a warp in its barrel, and I got a new one of the same
type (34PICT-3) at a junkyard. On it was something I had not seen on my old
one, but which I have now read about in the Library: a throttle positioner.
The article in the Library suggests that this can be on or off, no big
whoop, but that it might run cleaner with it in. It doesn't sound like it
was standard on a '71, but I have the part. So, once again, I ask for your
opinion: on or off, volks? If on, are there tips for adjusting it properly?

3) My bus must have originally come with an AE engine case. What came with
it when I bought it was a fresh AM type from a local bug shop. The Library
states that this is a *possible* case for 1600s, but, again, I wonder if it
is the right or best one for mine.

Okay, those are my questions for now. Any opinions and subsequent advice
would be helpful and appreciated.

Thanks,

t
