Date: Fri, 28 Sep 2001 08:52:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: Ol'No Name and Mark <deluxecloudbus(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Friday rat bastard report....

Hi Real Bus People   I dont see much wrong with a bit
of info exchange on fridays outside of the bus
lines...But hey it is not my list.I must say if I had
to choose sides...any extra info on killing rat
bastards(terrorist) before they kill me or you...is
welcome here.No need to go overboard on it but this is
now a part of life here in the USA.I am not out on the
street looking for fights...I have been to Pakistan
while in the service years ago.It is a very different
world there folks.You will know a terrorist from the
others from ANY country.... the terrorist is the one
trying to kill you.Keep your eyes open...dont look for
fights...The battle lines are being set..innocent
people have died and others will die...it is very sad
but that is war.And they/we will be killed anyways if
bin laden or others like him run free....sad world I
must say...Peace will not live long without a big bad
armed friend to watch his backside at all times.      
     We here on this list are not the enemy.Be good to
your bus bro's and sisters.
 

=====
Mark and his under-repair(broken down)...by me...poor thing..67 Deluxe walk thru 13 window Ol'No Name in San Luis Obispo,Calif...7 miles to the ocean!..Hey!..Why miss me when you eat your Breakfast?I am right here  http://community.webtv.net/DakineYaMan/MarkmissingOlNoName Sea-Ya (:}

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Listen to your Yahoo! Mail messages from any phone.
http://phone.yahoo.com
