From: Mark L. Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Mon, 17 Jan 2005 16:56:34 -0800
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] once upon a pre-owned tuna can

On Jan 17, 2005, at 4:34 PM, Richard Atwell wrote:

>  I can't really think of a less expensive vehicle to operate (beetle 
> not withstanding) other than a motorcycle.

There's nothing stranger than being in a FLAPS and seeing someone come 
in for a tail lens for their BMW or a starter for their Infinity. They 
hear the price and freak. Darned if I can figure out why. Why would 
anyone think that expensive-to-buy cars are made of 
inexpensive-to-replace parts?

What makes VW buses so much better than other cars is how simple their 
systems are. Roll up the window? Turn a crank. Intermittent wiper 
setting not working? Can't happen. Motorized adjustment to the seat 
inoperable? Not in a VW bus. (The sunroofs are the exception that 
proves the rule.)

The only thing that makes buses undependable is a class of 
driver/owners who think they're getting something for nothing. Alas, 
that's the way a lot of buses have been treated.

Now, it's true that my bus isn't running at present. And it's true that 
I have had breakdowns. But every problem I have ever had with my bus 
has been my own danged fault. I "hoped" that something that was shot 
would last a little longer, or I tried to save a buck or two by using a 
cheap part. Or I didn't follow the advice of the list, or Wilson, or 
Bentley. It has always been my own fault.

But as Ratwell said, that's what this list is all about. Maybe I use it 
too much. Maybe I don't need to fuss about the accuracy of scales and 
calipers or what should be balanced where. But unless I get and weigh 
that advice, I'll do something stupid. I'm drawn to mistakes like a 
moth to a flame. And I have a proclivity to be cheap.

And if something goes wrong with my bus in the future, it'll be my 
fault. Not the fault of my bus.


Mark
