From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 17 Jul 2004 22:41:16 -0400
Subject: NEW IMPROVED Poptop Canvas is Here!

Some time back I promised new Westfalia poptop canvas offerings.  After
nearly a year of working on this, I am happy to announce that they
finally arrived at The Bus Depot from Europe yesterday.

To recap, for the last 15 years or so, virtually all replacement poptop
canvas sold in the U.S. has came from the same U.S. factory, no matter
where you bought it. It is a course cotton material that, while quite
functional and of good quality, has quite a different finish and texture
from the original, so it looks far from original. The same factory also
offers a Sunbrella synthetic fabric for about $100 more, which is
smoother looking (cosmetically more like the original) but expensive and
quite stiff (making it harder to close the poptop). On the bright side,
this aftermarket supplier uses three screened windows with zippered
flaps, instead of just one front window as came stock from 1974 on.
Anyone who has had a 3-window canvas knows that this is a huge
improvement, in terms of ventilation and getting a cross-breeze going on
hot nights. 

About two years ago I brought in some genuine Westfalia replacement
poptop canvas from Germany.  Of course it was beautiful - the same fit
and finish as the original. The quality difference was unmistakable. The
only drawback is that, like the original, the 1974-up version had only a
single window.

Recognizing the potential for a "best of both worlds" product here, I
have for some time been working with the original German supplier to
Westfalia to come up with a modified version of the OEM poptop canvas -
the same genuine Westfalia canvas, but now with three screened windows
and zippered flaps on all years from '68-79.  This is now available. The
price is $299 to $349, which is about 1/3 of what Volkswagen charged for
the single-window version.

But I also went a step further, and sent samples of the genuine
Westfalia canvas to a European specialist to have aftermarket repro's
made.  These are basically "knockoffs" of the aforementioned genuine
Westfalia canvas, complete with three windows. I must say, they came out
really nice. Compared to the genuine Westfalia ones the canvas is a bit
lighter in color (less brown in the pigment, more of a light beige), the
mosquito screens are darker, and the fabric maybe just a bit
lighter-weight. But the quality is surprisingly close, especially for
the price. These are priced cheaper than ANY other potpop canvas you can
buy - $179 or $199 depending on year. So they are both better AND
cheaper than what's been available for the last 15 years. Now that's a
home-run in my book!

So now you have a choice:  A really nice repro for under $200, or for
those who want only the best on their Bus, a better-than-original
genuine Westfalia canvas for $300-$350. 

The only bad news is that there is no choice of colors - just tan/beige.
Yes, I know originally a variety of colors were used in the U.S.
(orange, bright yellow, green, etc.). However, in Europe almost everyone
got tan, and the other colors have long since been discontinued by the
fabric supplier to Westfalia. So the only truly OEM product we could
offer is tan (which is basically European spec on all years '68-79). As
far as the repro's go, it wasn't economically viable to run them in
multiple colors. We needed the economies of scale to keep the price
down, meaning just one neutral color. The beige is neutral enough to
look great on all years.  If we had to split that order into half a
dozen colors the pricing would have shot up astronomically. 

So we will continue to have yellow, orange, etc. available from the U.S.
aftermarket supplier, in either cotton or Sunbrella, if a brighter color
is your desire. But if you can live with a very neutral beige/tan color
that really does look good on all years, you'll get a superior product
for less money.

You can find the canvas listed at the following link:

<http://busdepot.com/view.jsp?model=57&category=40&group=94&prodgroup=90
9>

The ones with the lightning bolt icons are the new offerings.  The
others are the aftermarket U.S. ones that we have always offered.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
