From: "No Quarter" <silent(-at-)beatricene.com>
To: "listvw" <VintagVW(-at-)listproc.sjsu.edu>, "listbus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 10 Sep 2001 20:44:48 -0500
Subject: Cheap remanufactured half-shafts for IRS VWs.

This is a copy of a post I sent to the Buskatiers email list tonight.  I'm
sure people will take issue over remanufactured stuff vs new but I do not
intend to start a war over this.  For those of us whose rides depend on
being able to eek by on cheap stuff, this may be of interest.
======================================================================
Just to let you all know that in pursuit of parts for Shannon's 1974
Transporter (Buddy), Glen Hadley reminded me that you could get a
remanufactured half shaft (2 CVs, new boots, pre-greased, and axle - ready
to assemble) for around $90.  I checked AutoZone's website and you can get a
remanufactured half shaft for a baywindow manual trannied bus and even bugs
for $59.99 with a $45.99 core.  This means if you bring in your old shaft,
you pay $59.99.  If you pay up front and bring the core in later, then you'd
pay $105.98 and get your $45.99 back at a later time.

This is an excellent deal as Shannon bought one CV for $80 and already
bought a seperate boot kit for more money.  I think I've got her convinced
that she needs to return her CV and get her butt down to Autozone to order
that ready to bolt in half shaft. :-)  I know Bug CV's can run $40 to $60
each and I thought I was doing good when I found a place (my ex-employer)
that I could get them new for $25 to $30 a pop.  The remanufactured shafts
have that Autozone Limited Lifetime Warranty too so never again will you
have to buy a shaft or CVs!!!

For the money conscious and penny pinchers amongst us (some of whom ride
scooters to work to save gas money), I thought it definiltely worthy of
mention.

NQ

////////////MEMBERS//// 'Buskatiers ListServ' ////ONLY////////////
//////////////////PLEASE REFER TO THE BUSKATIERS//////////////////
///////////////////////////USERS AGREEMENT////////////////////////
//////////////////////////www.buskatiers.org//////////////////////



