From: "No Quarter" <silent(-at-)beatricene.com>
To: "listbus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "listvw" <VintagVW(-at-)listproc.sjsu.edu>,
Date: Tue, 11 Sep 2001 13:39:35 -0500
Subject: Pearl Harbor revisited.

I couldn't believe what I was hearing on the radio today at work.  As
various contractors came in and reported what they had seen and heard, it
soon became evident to me that certainly the feelings of the Pearl Harbor
era were certainly revived once again.

I just got home from work about 20 minutes ago and saw what appeared to be a
Hollywood special effect of a big old passenger jet plowing into one of the
twin towers of the WTC.  I've seen these bldgs in person and couldn't
believe my eyes.  What a tragedy.

Since we are a generation or 2 away from Pearl Harbor, it's all too easy for
people who weren't there to not realize the severity of the deed and the
impact it had on people at that time.  Some have even gone so far as to pity
the "enemy" and the lives lost while they took the offensive.  This holds
true in any war that happened.  It doesn't take long for naysayers to spring
up and people to deny things like this ever happened such as the Holocaust,
etc.  Learn a lesson that history teaches you and NEVER let time diminish
your spirit and your patriotism.

James Lindsay put it well when he said now is not the time for revenge
rather a time for greiving for all the lives lost.  For the servicemen and
rescue personel who will lose their lives over this and who are continuing
to assist in the rescue and security efforts, we're all deeply indebted to
them.  Honor your veterans past, present, and future.  Learn from history
folks and don't ever get complacent about where you stand in life.

NQ

