From: "Don Tuleja" <durocshark(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 22 May 2004 20:14:50 -0700
Subject: My day under my bus (long)

I wanted to type this up before my mind starts blocking it out... I'll have 
some pics later. If you want to skip to my questions, feel free. They're at 
the end.

Since I got the bus running, it was time to work on some other things. My 2 
primary tasks were to install the new tie rods and find the exhaust leak. I 
had a complete set of tie rods w/ends from BusDepot and a set of exhaust 
gaskets from DIPS in Garden Grove, CA.

Well, I broke one puller and bent one made for tie rod ends I bought at 
Autozoned trying to get the tie rod ends loose. Wow. Ball joint separator 
and a 5 lb sledge did the trick though. That POS puller is going back 
tomorrow. New ones went in with no problem. I managed to get the alignment 
really close at install. Steering is MUCH tighter now. Still need to replace 
the relay shaft thingie and ball joints though to take up the last of the 
slack then it's off for an alignment.

Ate lunch.

Went south to tackle the exhaust. Most of the nuts were rusted beyond hope, 
but I had planned ahead and had replacements. (Exhaust nuts go through so 
much I try to replace 'em every time I work on them for any car.) One stud 
in the muffler came out with the nut. No biggie. A local store (Tops, 
Anaheim, CA... Great place, but not VW friendly) has replacements. What is 
up with all the funky straps and such holding the muffler and heater boxes 
in place? Sheesh... heh

Muffler off. Insides rattle and slide about 4 inches in either direction. 
Sigh. I knew I needed a new one, just can't afford it. Time to tackle the 
exhaust manifolds/heater boxes.

Crap! Right heater box was rusted end to end and disintegrated in my hand. 
Got it off, and looked at the "gaskets". They look more like shims to me! 
Oval shaped pieces of metal. Odd... Other side nearly as bad. :( The heater 
boxes looked ready to fall off of both. In fact I ended up cutting the last 
bits holding them on since they weren't doing anything anyway and I was more 
afraid that pieces would start falling off on the road (and with my luck, a 
cop would be right behind me). I know how it affects engine cooling, and the 
exhaust is my first task.

Now, heater boxes off, and I get a look at the manifolds. They're encased in 
finned aluminum just like the heads. Interesting. Comparing the OVAL ports 
with the SQUARE gaskets the idiots at DIPS gave me set me off. I should have 
looked at them when I bought them since they are clueless (though they 
advertise VWs our specialty!! Right...) Of course they don't have them and 
said they can't get them. Arrgghhh!!! Nobody else that's open has 'em 
either. 700 deg gold silicone it is then... On both sides of the old 
gaskets. The right cyl head has helicoils in all the exhaust stud holes. 2 
studs were missing. Left cyl head had one stud missing, and no helicoil. :( 
At this point, it's too late for me to buy the helicoil, drill and tap the 
hole, and put it all back together.

Interesting enough for one day, right? Wait! There's more!

Right exhaust goes on without a hitch (new studs and nuts). Left exhaust... 
One of the pipes seems to be cranked 10 degrees out. WTF? Won't go on at 
all! I took it out and took a good look at it. Apparently it had been 
rewelded. Poorly. Family is sitting there waiting for me to finish up so we 
can go home... Out comes the 5 lb sledge again. Bang on the pipes until 
they're as close as possible. Still can't get it to crank all the way down. 
Try again. Same results. Sigh. I tighten it up as much as possible to get it 
home (did I mention I was at my in-laws who have a house and a driveway and 
are in Vegas for the weekend?) Of course, the hole where the stud was 
missing is so stripped I can't get a new stud to stay there. :( Bleh. I 
won't be driving this thing much until it's fixed...

Side note: Driving it home it had way WAY more power! The muffler must 
really be bad if I get this much power from an exhaust leak.

Side note #2: DO NOT BUY SEARS CRAFTSMAN VICE-GRIPS! They're really 
impressive, heavy, good feel. But there are NO TEETH! Just round bumps in 
the jaws. Grrr.... Had to dig out my 20 year old true Vice-Grips to get the 
bad exhaust nuts loose.

Now for the questions:

What is the absolutely cheapest solution from the cylinder heads to the 
tailpipe? Assuming I don't find anything decent at the boneyards. I bought a 
heater box back muffler from Bus Depot but they sent me the wrong one. 
Unless there's a manifold I can bolt between the head and the triangular 
flange on this shiny new muffler and pipes setting right next to me. (I 
haven't talked to them about it yet. Been too busy working on the bus!)

What should I be looking for to find out if I really have a 1700 or a 2000? 
Is there an engine number somewhere that will tell me?

If I decide not to do the helicoil myself (never done one before), what does 
a shop charge for something like this?

Why is the sky blue?

Thanks!!! And I'll have some piccies up after I go take a shower.

Don
1973 HiTop
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus

_________________________________________________________________
Learn to simplify your finances and your life in Streamline Your Life from 
MSN Money. http://special.msn.com/money/0405streamline.armx
