From: "Sean Fulkerson" <sean_fulkerson(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Wed, 12 Jun 2002 20:43:19 -0400
Subject: Regarding the "new" microbus...

While I was intrigued that VW was planning to "bring back" the microbus, I 
also knew that they would screw it up (and probably put the screws to us 
air-cooled bus drivers).

First off, I can guarantee that VWOA's trademark creeps are going to start 
actively pursuing anyone who uses "bus" in their domain name, especially if 
it is a VW oriented site. Watch out BusDepot, BustedBus, etc...  They did 
the same thing when the "new" Beetle came out, and I fully expect them to 
try to repossess the rights to anything and everything bus-related.

Second, as far as the VW "dealerships" go, I have yet to come across one 
that could give a rat's ass about the air-cooled vehicles that built their 
franchises. Hell, most of the VW "dealers" have only recently jumped on the 
VW bandwagon -- the two in my immediate area were Ford/Lincoln/Mercury and 
Dodge dealerships until just a few years ago. I probably wouldn't have much 
of a bitch with them, except that they only want to see an air-cooled VW 
when they're having shows and want to attract crowds. The rest of the time, 
they only want you around if you're planning on spending $20K plus on a new 
one. And don't even get me started about the attitudes in their parts and 
service departments. Most of their mechanics wouldn't know how to change the 
oil in a real bus or bug, let alone do anything that requires brains.

As far as the "new microbus" is concerned, from what I've seen it has 
absolutely none of the charm or charisma of the original. Who wants a $20K+ 
piece of plastic? Probably the same people who would fork over $200 a head 
to attend a sanitized reunion tour of their favorite Sixties group. Can you 
picture folks like that caravaning or camping in their "new" bus? I can just 
see the rows of generators and imagine all the bitching about the lack of 
bottled-water/chardonnay selections. I know that there's a segment of the 
list here that doesn't like the "hippie bus" moniker (or some of the 
un-factory paint jobs out there), but think about it -- other than some 
magnetic or vinyl stick-on flowers, how creative do you think these "new" 
bus owners will be when it comes to personalizing their rides? Even if they 
did, how "personal" can you make something that looks like it just drove off 
the "BladeRunner" movie set?

Okay... I think my rant is over. My apologies if I've offended, but I really 
needed to get that off my chest. Needless to say, my opinion of the "new" 
bus is a definite "thumbs-down". When this abomination comes out, I just may 
put my 10-inch chrome VW badge up for sale on E-bay and replace it with a 
spare tire. I love my bus, but I'm so sick of VWOA and its parent that I 
could just scream.

Peace and love, folks...

Sean,

1970 Microbus ("Mimi")

_________________________________________________________________
MSN Photos is the easiest way to share and print your photos: 
http://photos.msn.com/support/worldwide.aspx

