Date: Thu, 13 Jun 2002 15:32:53 -0800
From: Paul and/or Deanna Sinfield <plaidbus(-at-)attbi.com>
Subject: RE: cal/nev hwy 395 sights


<<Heading up 395 for some hiking/camping this weekend. Anybody know any 
good vw yards/things to see/people to meet from Ridgecrest north?
<<We're coming from the central valley over a mountain pass north of the 
58. Is it the 178?

<<Later,

<<Billy
______________________

Hey Billy:

I live in West L.A., and drive up the 395 now and again to go do the 
same stuff you're gonna do - I never try big road trips in my bus, I 
just don't feel that confident in its ability to handle long periods at 
50 plus mph, but I'm glad somebody's doing it!  I'm extremely jealous!

Anyway, here's a couple of things I like to hit on my way up that road:

Fossil Falls - north of Ridgecrest and hwy 178, just past Little Lake, 
right off the 395, I think the exit is Cinder Road....Very cool rock 
formations - you park your bus in this little lot, then walk an easy 1/8 
mile.  While you're walking you'll be thinking, "what am I doing here?", 
but then when you get there - Wow!

If you're going as far as Independence, and have some fishing poles, you 
might try this - in the middle of Independence there's a traffic light 
and a road that heads up west (left) into the Sierras (name of road 
escapes me, but it's pretty obvious).  Drive up this road about six 
miles (not very steep yet) to the Onion Valley campground.  Park where 
you can, then wander through the campsites down to Independence Creek 
(you can't see it, but you can see all the trees, that's the creek) and 
you'll find this idyllic little place where the path follows the creek 
up and downriver and it's just really pretty and hey! there's plenty of 
trout in there!
If you really want to seriously hike and maybe backpack camp away from 
your bus - take the Onion Valley road further all the way to the top 
(another five miles maybe?) and you can hike up the Kearsarge Pass 
-astoundingly beautiful, other people there but never too many...

Also in Independence (can you tell that I love this little town?) is a 
pizza place with a little park next to it you can eat in - it's right on 
395.  The food there is much, much, much better than the other little 
coffee shop looking places in town (which look sort of quaint and you'd 
think it'd be fun to eat there, but the food's awful), also, if you have 
kids, the pizza place has this strange room under the elevated inside 
eating area with a TV and couches, which they'd probably dig.

Have fun!

Paul Sinfield
1969 Transporter
Los Angeles, CA


