Date: Sun, 2 Mar 2003 11:07:02 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: A/C condenser question...Thoughts anyone?

Hello List,

I have a quick question. I picked up  an entire a/c
settup from a bus last week. This is the over head
type. I ended up having to cut all the hoses
underneath the vehicle because I could not free the
fittings. I found that the bus had 2 condensers!! Is
this normal? One was mounted under the front cab and
the other was mounted under the middle. The middle one
had 2 fans attached to it. THe bad news is that the
fans are frozen in place and one of the inlets on the
middle condenser came out. It appears that it came out
where the fitting was origionally brazed into place. 

Here is what I was thinking. I wanted to up grade the
existing condensers with one big condenser from a
Tahoe. (36" by around 24"). Can a usually vertically
mounted condenser be mounted horizontally? I was
planning on using 2 high out put condenser fans on
this condenser. From what I have read, this should
make the evaporator cooler right? Could this condenser
be too big? What are the consequences for using a
condenser that is too big? Is it big enough to have
another evaporator mounted in the back?  These are
just some things that I was looking at. The evaporator
is in great shape as well as the old York condenser. I
am still debating on using the York because I don't
know the condition of its main seal. I will probably
go with the newer style compressor and sell the
York...

Just some thoughts. Please add anything you would
like. I am looking for thoughts, opions, and
suggestions. Thanks!!!!

David Kelly 
