From: "Jerry & Melissa Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "type2 \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>, "vintagebus \(E-mail\)"
Date: Mon, 3 Mar 2003 07:37:52 -0700
Subject: Arizona Alert !!

Subject: FW: New Bill Number 2238


The House Bill Number regarding the emissions for OLD Cars has Changed !!
There is still time for you to follow this link and contact your
Representative to have your Old Car Exempt from Emissions in Arizona !!
Please follow through using the enclosed link----Every contact can make  --
makes this possible  PLEASE Do It Now !!--

LEGISLATIVE ALERT (UPDATE)

 Emissions Inspection Exemption for Older Cars:  Arizona

        Legislation to exempt motor vehicles that bear a model year date of
original manufacture that is 25 years old or older from the state's
mandatory emissions inspection and maintenance program and create a
permanent one-time registration has been renumbered.  Known previously as
H.B. 2387, the new bill number is H.B. 2238.

We Urge You to Contact Your State Legislators in

Support of this Bill

Existing law in Arizona only exempts vehicles manufactured in or before the
1966 model year from emissions inspection.


H.B. 2238 provides for a rolling 25-year exemption that would exempt
pre-1979 vehicles upon enactment and would pick up an additional model year
for each year the law is in effect.

H.B. 2238 acknowledges the relatively minimal environmental impact of older
vehicles, such as the 25-year old and older vehicles targeted for this
exemption.

Many states have already enacted similar exemptions, the most recent being
Missouri in 2001, Virginia in 2000, Washington State in 1998 and California
in 1997.  The reason for this trend is clear; such vehicles constitute a
small portion of the vehicle fleet and are generally well-maintained and
infrequently operated.

The idea behind exempting any class of vehicles is to reduce costs while not
losing appreciable emissions reductions.   This strategy not only builds
public support for emissions-inspection programs, but also directs the
program to where it will be most valuable in cleaning the air.  A 25-year
rolling exemption certainly achieves these ends.

        Please contact members of the Arizona Legislature in support of this
bill.  If you need assistance in determining who your legislators are,
contact the Arizona Legislature's General Information line:   602/542-4900.
This information can also be obtained by calling the SEMA Washington, D.C.
office at 202/783-6007 ext. 39 or you can access this information via the
Internet at http://www.enjoythedrive.com/legislative/contact_legislator.asp.
Please include your name and address on your correspondence.

For our records, please fax a copy of your letters to us at 202/783-6024 or
mail to:

SEMA Washington Office

1317 F St., NW, Ste. 500

Washington, D.C.  20004

Attn:  Steve McDonald/Brian Caudill
