Date: Mon, 6 Dec 2004 10:27:37 -0800 (PST)
From: Gregory Sorbello <gregorysorbello(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Someone please talk me out of pushing my bus off a cliff

Allright, I'll make a very long, torture filled story
short.  I drove my 75 FI Westy out to Buffalo NY (450
miles from my home in RI) this summer and while out
there the last few threads on the #3 cylinder finally
gave out.  I have removed the engine and made the
necessary repair with a sleeve kit, which worked
great. This repair cost me two weekend trips to
Buffalo, Thanks to everyone on this list for the help.

However, when the repair was finally done, my bus
would not idle.  I have made five trips (7 total) the
450 miles from home to my bus, and I still cannot get
it to run or idle right.  I have checked and rechecked
everything I could think of, and everything people on
this list have suggested. She ran perfect before the
spark plug incident.  I am just at a loss now.  

I wonder if anyone in the Buffalo area knows of any
place to have my bus professionally fixed so I can
drive it home, or maybe the identity of someone who
will tow it home for less than the $1,500.00 quotes I
have received, or at least a nice tall cliff I can
push it off with myself inside it.  
