From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Nathaniel Poole'" <npoole(-at-)telus.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 18 Jun 2007 17:48:53 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Squeezed for time

Nathaniel,

I just did this for the, let's see, 8th time on my buses and have helped
pull around a dozen or more others in the last year.

The engine should remain bolted to the transmission coming out, and going
in. For me, it is a two-part trick.

First I use drive-up ramps (the metal ones are best because they are the
highest) or 20" 5 ton jack-stands. You need the height to clear the table
jack and the motor rolling out the back.

Second part is NOT to use a floor jack, transmission jack or a modified
version of either. I use a Checker Auto Parts 500lb capacity table jack (a
table with a hydraulic scissor lift attached and four wheels). I bought it
for $70 bucks a couple of years ago. It is perfect and makes it a 1 person
job or a REALLY easy 2 person job. I have a couple of pieces of scrap 2x4 I
use to shim it just right. Nice thing is after it is out, you jack up the
table, and get to stripping the motor at table height! The four wheels make
it easy to roll around the shop too.

If you are on the dirt, get a big 'ol piece of plywoodish stuff to put the
jack on.

To give you an example of time savings, Chris and I got down to about 20
minuets pulling a Type 4 motor and tranny and 10 minutes for a Type 1 combo,
in the sleet, outdoors with a piece of OSB on top of melting puddles of
snow. Before, it was a 1.5 hour job.

Wish I could lend you my tools and lend a hand!

Jon Stiles

Nathaniel Poole Wrote:

Thanks all for your advice, but I should have added a further detail - I
have to bring the tranny with the engine -is this too much for one person,
does it make the job harder or easier? I already have the axles off the
wheels...
