Date: Thu, 9 May 2002 23:41:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Refurbishing a fan shroud. 

Hello List,

Well, I have yet started another project. For those
that recall, I am saving up for a rebuilt long block,
fixing up a set of heat exchangers, doing body work to
my bus and now this. Well, at least I didn't spend any
money on this one. 

I took my fan shroud off my 73 engine when I removed
the engine from the bus. The fan was caked with old
oil/grease/dirt/fuel. Needless to say, every inch of
the inside of the shroud was caked in this same
concoction. I couldn't imagine putting my engine back
in my bus with this fan shroud the way it was. Just
think of the petroleum vapors that would blow in my
bus if I used the stock heater! Plus the effectiveness
of such a dirty cooling system could not be that good.


So, I soaked the whole thing in Varsol. This loosened
the gunk but I couldn't reach every spot I wanted to
inside it so I used a torque screw driver to remove
the screws that held the 2 halves of the shroud
together. It really wasn't that hard. I then used a
wire brush, Varsol, concentrated degreaser, and hot
soap and water to get the inside areas of the shroud
clean. 

Satisfied with that, I went ahead and bead blasted the
outside of each half. Other that the large pit where
the unlike metals were fastened, It looks almost new!
I am temped to buy some of that clear POR 15 that is
made to go on bare metal so I can keep that shroud
looking this way. I will post pictures in a day or two
as soon as I get the digital camera back. I will also
keep you posted on the progress on the heat
exchangers. I am currently waiting for the POR 15 to
arrive. Well, I just thought I would let everyone know
what I have been up to. Good luck with your busses!

Have a great day!

David Kelly
From Wilmington, North Carolina 


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Shopping - Mother's Day is May 12th!
http://shopping.yahoo.com
