Date: Sun, 30 Sep 2001 11:38:54 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VWlist <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: re: [VB] Personal lawsuit?

Someone asked me recently what their options were if
they buy a Bus cross-country and upon delivery, they
find it was woefully misrepresented.
Should they file a personal lawsuit?
-------------------------------------------

It depends on what amount or lack of documentation and
pre-purchase paperwork exists to support the
transaction. No leg to stand on? Then you will be
making a lawyer richer and you will be shoving money
down a hole. Trust me- Been there, done that in a
non-vehicle related business venture in the 1980's.
The lawyer wisely calculated that I had no money and
the guy on the otherend of the deal had no money
therefore there was no money for him to make. End of
that lawsuit... I was swinging in the wind, was set up
like a six month old female first time howling cat
with a wet tail and a little wiser.

I always encourage "Doing business before doing
business." In other words do your research, know your
market, document details of the deal in writing-
signed by both parties- with both parties getting a
copy.

Or walk away...

This applies to getting your house painted, accepting
a new position at XYZ Corporation or buying OR SELLING
a bus cross country or to/from another continent. Some
folks even go for pre-nuptial agreements with persons
to whom they intend to spend the rest of their
physical lives! Greed, ignorance, having a case of
"bus fever", or trusting your fellow citizen in
business are no excuses AFTER the fact. 

Look at any purchase in the big picture.  Just about
the only thing that I claim to have learned from my
now deceased Father is his offhanded comment, "It's
not the cost but the up-keep" In otherwords, the
initial purchase price might not be the most expensive
part of the over all costs! This applies to love
relationships and vehicle purchases among other
things... Ask yourself what the overall costs will be
in the worst case scenario. If you have doubts
regarding the condition of any aspect of your desired
item to be purchased- then have the seller specify in
writing it's current condition. Negotiate up or down
from there.
The alternatives if the seller refusesto negotiate or
document are to walk or to be ready to spend the cost
of making the purchase appropriate for your intended
usage.

As a seller:  Specify what you have and it's condition
even if you document the item as "Sold as-is, where
is. No warrantees are expressed or implied. This sale
final upon payment. Purchaser to transfer Title/legal
ownership according to XXXXX State/Prov. statutes.
Signature of purchaser aka <insert name> below
absolves seller <insert name> of any/all liabilities."

If the buyer backs off or questions the document then
reassure them that it covers their butt too as proof
of purchase. Any changes to the document can be
negotiated and included prior to both of you signing.

Do I do this with every deal? No. 
1.> A mint condition mudvalve in the box at a swapmeet
for an obviously great price?  Of course not. Pick up
the piece, keep it in hand- THEN get the wallet and
pay the seller!
2.> An OG single cab purchased from a little old lady
with a bad heart and a bad hip would constitute having
her sign over the title < or giving the
non-transferred OG title> and a simple hand written
and signed 30 second proof of purchase document. 
3.> Selling a bazillion dollar, zero mile totally
restored 1953 23 window deluxe to persons from the
Planet 9 would most definitely involve more CYA and
details on both ends.

I am NOT a lawyer. This is opinion NOT legal advice.
When in doubt CYA - cover your "Action", get real
legal representation, accept the risks or step back
from the deal and wait for another day. Things have
tendancy to work or not work. If it isn't working then
don't push it.  Simply figure that "Ben Pon" or other
deities of your choosing have a plan for your life.
You DON'T wanna mess it up. P*ss your money away on a
bad deal and you won't have the money for the deal
that "Ben" had intended for you. That "deal" might be
a broken water heater or unexpected trip to the
emergency room for that fifth three-eyed, web-toed,
red headed child that you love so dearly...
IMHO,
-Ellis

Life is a risk, calculate accordingly...


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Listen to your Yahoo! Mail messages from any phone.
http://phone.yahoo.com
