From: Chris Slaymaker <chris_slaymaker(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 11 Feb 2009 20:55:57 -0500
Subject: Re: Steering box on the way out FIXED!

> Bentley helped a little, but I mostly learned a lot from my mistakes.

Any chance we can learn from the mistakes? ;)  This is on my list of
to-do's too.

Peace, Troy  www.calivw78.com
'74 Westy    '78 Transporter
-----------------------------
     Parking In The Pines
    www.calivw78.com/pitp
   May 29-30 2009 Denver,CO

OK here goes.

.............................................................................
............................

Steering box R & R.

The tough part is getting the steering shaft undone.  This would be a
good time to replace the steering coupling and find out why your horn
doesnt work.

NOTE: I took EVERYTHING apart in the cab, but it might not be
necessary.  Bentley says to just remove the turn signal switch.

HINT: The steering shaft is connected to the steering box with a
clamp.  The bolt runs perpendicular to the shaft and fits in a keyway
(look on your new steering box).  The bolt needs to come out
COMPLETELY in order to remove the steering shaft.  Peel the ears
away from the nut with a screwdriver (may need the help of a hammer at
the handle end of the screwdriver).  Presumably, the Bentley folks
feel that all thats necessary is to pull (push) the steering shaft up
out of the way enough to swing the steering box out of its hole
through the frame (see NOTE above).

Run out and get a pittman arm puller.  At AutoZone (no affiliation)
you can pick one up for about $14. Take care of it as you would your
own tools and return it for a full refund when youre done.  It took a
little turning and tapping, but the pittman arm broke free without too
much hassle.  A pickle fork wont work.

There are four bolts that hold the steering box to the frame.  Ones
kinda hard to see.  On my bus, there was enough seepage from the
steering box that none of the bolts got set in iron oxide.

Back to the other end of the steering box.

I didnt know about the captive bolt (mentioned in the HINT above) and
wound up removing the steering coupling with everything in the car.
There are a lot of cotter pins to deal with.  Put them in a safe place
 NOT on the ground.  Theres a warpy washer at each end of the four
bolts (total 8)  put them in a safe place.

If you are dismantling everything from the floorboard up (like I did)
and your horn works, unplug the wire from the horn itself so that
theres plenty of slack if you need to pull the steering shaft cover
(tube) north  it will slide in the dash mount (that holds the
ignition switch).   The steering shaft cover can come loose from the
flange, and theres a plastic split ring that is supposed to keep the
tube and the flange insulated from one another.  It does not come off
of the flange as easily as it comes off of the tube.

Make sure the key is in the ignition and it is turned part way to
disengage the steering lock (if you still have one).
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
========================================================================

Observations:

1.         There is a keyway on the steering wheel end of the steering
box (input shaft).  In the middle position of the old steering box,
it was on the left (drivers) side of the shaft (pointing forward/
backward).  On the new steering box, it was on the right (passengers)
side of the shaft.  This will help you to find the middle position.

2.         When you turn the shaft all the way as far as it will go to
the left, it will be at about 10:00.   As you turn it to the right as
far as it will go. It will pass 12:00 three times before it stops at
about 2:00.

3.         I used the attachment to the steering coupling as a T-
handle to turn the shaft.  I didnt dare use vise grips for fear of
munging up the splines.

4.         On my old steering box, there was a rubber ring on the
bottom of the input shaft.  It has an index mark on it.  At center, it
pointed to a stamping on the aft side of the steering box. It was held
on by a circlip.  It appears to double as protection for the bearing.
It was NOT on the rebuilt steering box.  I found center on the new
steering box and put it on in the same fashion, although the rebuilt
steering box didnt have a stamping on it.

5.         There was NOT an index mark on the pittman arm side of the
steering box, as indicated by the Bentley manual.

6.         The brown wire for the horn that snakes through the
steering shaft goes through the hole in the coupling and then in
between the coupling and the T-handle that attaches to the steering
box input shaft (in order to make a chassis ground).  This doesnt
matter if youre not replacing the steering coupling.

7.         There was a mark on the steering shaft (inside the cabin)
that apparently was made by the PO.  It had NOTHING to do with center
position.  See next note.

8.         HINT: I used a pencil and made a mark (actually a lot of
marks) on the end of a shaft.  The pencil marks will rub off until you
find the true center.  I used the mark(s) to locate center.  See note 2.
