Date: Mon, 8 Jul 2002 22:40:43 -0700 (PDT)
From: Good Ole Volk <goodolevolk(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Vanagon List <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>,
Subject: Buses On The River

More details to follow soon - but be aware, be
afraid, be there, and be square... the disco ball
is making an appearance.

How many people are already planning on coming to
the shindig??  If you are, please give me an idea
of a head count for your Donner party.  It will
give us some idea of how to plan the food.  We've
been thinking hard about a pig roast since last
years feast, but need to have an estimate of
numbers to size in on the right pork to poke.

The Scoop: (low-fat, no sugar added)

Buses On The River
August 16-18
At the Nolichucky Gorge Campground in Erwin, TN 
http://www.angelfire.com/tn/nolichucky/index.html


Cost is $6.00, per person, per night; full
hook-ups also available for an additional $5.00
per site, per night

Website is: 
http://www.geocities.com/goodolevolk/busriver.html
 and is chock full of information, including
directions, the food sign-up and recipe listing,
as well as being THE place to check for ALL
updates and info changes.

Email for replies, questions, comments, concerns:
GoodOleVolk(-at-)yahoo.com 

If you just don’t want to type out your questions
or need to pass the news along to someone who
doesn’t email, then by all means, call me:
[cell](423)612-0248  [home](423)230-0986  or
Dicko: [cell](423)292-4966


the end


=====
+         Power to the People's Car!             +
              BUSES ON THE RIVER
http://www.geocities.com/goodolevolk/busriver.html
     ----------------------------------------
       http://www.geocities.com/goodolevolk
         http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com
          http://www.goodolevolks.com

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Sign up for SBC Yahoo! Dial - First Month Free
http://sbc.yahoo.com
