Date: Wed, 19 Jan 2005 13:10:51 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: clutch wear, when to replace?, DP flaps connecting bar wanted,

Hello List,

I removed the mostly stock 1600 SP engine from my 1968
bus 2 days ago. I am installing a 1600DP engine (I
know, I have my flame suit on). Once the engine was
removed, it was evident that the throw out bearing
needed to be replaced because the dust cover plate had
come off of the front of it, and it did not roll that
smoothly. I am pricing a new throw out bearing and I
was wondering. When should I replace the clutch? The
clutch seemed to work fine before, except,  the engine
would try to push the bus forwards when it was in
neutral unless the clutch pedal was pressed down. this
seemed to be more of a problem in cold weather becuase
it would make the engine stall. Any thoughts?

I need the flaps connecting bar for a DP 1600cc
upright engine. this is the bar that makes the flaps
open in sync. If anyone has one for cheep, please let
me know. I want to reinstall the flaps if at all
possible.

Dumb question... I was trying to install the dizzy
drive into the engine case and I couldn't get it to
align up like bently said. I put the engine at tdc. I
verified this by sticking a screw driver into the #1
cylinder and making sure that the piston was at its
most extended point. For the life of me, I couldn't
get the groove in the distributor drive to line up
like the picture in bently. I had to go over one
notch. As long as the vac can is not interfering with
anything seeing as I now have to rotate the dizzy
several degrees, is this going to cause a problem? Is
there somthing that i am not dong right? These things
are such a PITA to remove once they slip into place.

Thanks for any help that can be offered!

Regards,

David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com
