From: "vanagonvw" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 5 Mar 2010 16:39:37 -0700
Subject: Rebuild

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Times up. Got to rebuild my air cooled 2.0. I do not have the space, time or
skill at this point to do this job. Went to the my local mechanic giving me
a
quote at 5000. Looking at parts, labor, I can see how it can get $$. I think
I
can buy a long block off busdepot.com ship it and install it for around
3000-3500. They give a year Year warranty.

I want to do this right. Any one have any advise?
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Having just done done this myself, I do have some advice. Find a VW shop,
and ask them who does their machine work. Make a list of what you want to
have done, and get the quote from the machinist.

Scrounge around for parts, look hard for a good deal on the P&C's and rings,
find a pair of heads by shopping ebay and craigslist, as well as just making
your needs known on lists like this, and do the work yourself. This is not
rocket science. I know I will raise the ire of many, but folks, this is a
simple engine, if you do the work well.

AVP is what BusDepot sells, and they are not well known for their Air Cooled
engines, by my research, but again, this ain't a Saturn V rocket. Their
stuff works, or they would be long gone out of business.You could get a
lemon, but odds are you will get a decent motor if you go that way.

As for $5000? Well, ask yourself what you expect from the rebuild. How many
miles on the present engine? The bottom end of a well cared for AC motor
will go 300K miles. Do you need to do the bottom end? Will you drive the van
another 150K miles, or will the rest of it have fallen apart around you by
then? :-)  If you want a 200K mile motor, what year will it be by the time
you get there? Will we even be able to afford a gallon of gas by then?

What about the clutch? Unless you know its good, figure to replace it as
well.

Bottom line is, you can rebuild it yourself, but you can't do the machine
work, so find those prices first. I just saw a comment about the adapter for
the HF engine stand, but I have a HF engine stand, and didn't need any
adapter for it. Don't understand that one.

It took me a long time, because of a lot of external issues, and I asked a
lot of questions, and got a different opinion for every question I asked. In
the end, its not that big a deal, and I have great respect for those who do
it a lot, and have their own methods, but the bottom line is, there is some
sort of religious attitude towards these engines that is undeserved. They
are just engines, and if you are mechanically inclined, you can put one
together yourself that will run and run and run, so listen to the experts,
they have a lot to offer, but in the end, don't forget to listen to common
sense. It will see you through.

And don't forget, if your tires are over six years old, you have to figure
another $550-$650 for a new set before you can drive the van anyway <BG>

John
