Date: Wed, 10 Mar 2004 12:00:56 -0700
From: "Curt Conklin" <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Sears and flywheels

Greasy friends,

I assume most of you got the same weekend Shunday paper ad from
Rosybucks and Sears.  They are having a sale on tools, as usual.  Good
stuff, those Craftsman trinklets.

My sons and I rebuilt a 1600 dual port, new bearings, pistons,
cylinders, heads, whole new long block.  We followed the idiot book
scrupulously.  Got the long block buttoned up, then put everthing else
on, with a 34 pict and later a progressive.  She runs fine.  The only
trouble we are having is that the dad-gum flywheel keeps loosening.  Has
happend three times now.  Second time we used locktitle.  Did no good. 
Now we didn't have a torque wrench to torque her 225 pounds at the
flywheel, so we just did the best we could.  Third time I broke down and
got the Sears Craftsman torque wrench and we re-installed the flywheel
last night.  This is getting exasperating.

While buying the TW at sears, we had an interesting experience.  The
weekend ad indicated the Mikrotek 3/8 and 1/2 in. drive wrenches in
three different torque ranges.  One of them went from 25 to 250 pounds. 
Just what we needed, the 1/2 in. drive 25-250 pound TW.  On sale for
$59.99.  We grabbed one and went to the till.  Well, the ring=up was
$99.99.  Whoa Nelly.  This one was a Digitech, or digital TW.  Not the
same.  Oh, . . . back to the shelves, . . . no 1/2 in drive 25-250 TW on
the self, just a little stubby one that was 3/8 inch drive.  Now anyone
who has ever torqued a flywheel knows that a 3/8 in. stubby just ain't
going to cut it at 225 lbs.  You'll break the drive first.  The kid at
the till checked around on the till and couldn't acertain that the
Microtek 1/2 in drive 25-250 pound TW even existed, let alone why it
wasn't on the shelf.  I haggled with him a bit, pointing out that the ad
clearly implies that such a thing does exist.  He went to the store
manager and I walked out with the 1/2 drive Digitek 25-250 pould TW.  

If anyone is interested in one of these, beware, the ad indicates the
Microtek exists, but the only one Sears has is the Digitek and it is
almost double in price.  Hey Cal Grant . . . run down to Harbor Frieght
and checkout their torque wrenches for us! ;-)

Bus content:  Uh, busses have flywheels too!

Best,

Curt
'66 w/ '63 23 window  . . .
