Date: Wed, 18 Oct 2006 16:33:42 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: [T2] [WetWesties] ASI/Riviera Pop-tops

This is not a sales pitch.  However, after my
prototyping is completed, someone in the world will be
handed my drawings with dimensions, bill-of-materials,
and features listing.
    
This E-mail concerns ASI/Riviera 68 to 79 Plan One
pop-top canvas owners only.  The plan one had the big
fiberglass top which went straight upwards?  Not the
pop-top that is 40" x 42, and not the fixed fiberglass
bubble called the Penthouse model.
   
I am replacing my pop-top canvas.  But the
replacement, which I am sewing as a project in an
Auto-Upholstery class, has many more features and
upgrades.  A rear window addition.  Stronger bug
screening which will not rip so easily.  Windows which
use a #5 zipper:  High Quality molded teeth which will
not freeze in cold weather.  Windows which unzip
upwards, and are held up with velcro.  A removable
front window bug screen.  Storage pockets for comb /
watch / glasses / change / wallet / flashlight, and
anything else you have in your pockets and don't want
to sleep on.
    
If you wish to see the design document (Word 2003),
then E-mail me off-list with the following Subject
Line:  RE [T2] [WetWesties] Rivi Pop-top canvas Repl
Features.
   
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
