From: "warren baity" <warrenbaity(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 08 Feb 2003 22:24:57 +0000
Subject: the never ending story...........

Ok, So i still have this noise (i have been thinking lately that it is a 
pinging and not a knocking that i thought it was ealier(how do you tell the 
difference between the two)) that i have no clue what it is from. Its a 72, 
1700, single carb, bus, I think that the engine is from a type 4 though 
because the letters on it are AE. or maybe EA. i cant remember right now. 
But i konw that the bugs had an engine that was one of those and its not the 
bugs engine code. I looked that up in muir though, and maybe he had his 
table wrong, but it said that it was from a type4. maybe someone could get 
back to me on that. anyhow,, this noise that is in my engine is only there 
in high rpm. like 1500-2000 and up. its not there at idle. I did a 
compression test. they all were well over 100. 125-140. the noise sounds 
like it is coming from the 3-4 side. then i thought it might be my timing. 
so i advanced it some. it was still there. i retarded it some. still there. 
when i adjusted my valves i thought i had found what was wrong. but nope. i 
had just had it on the wrong cylinder. stupid me. rotated the engine. nope. 
everthing was fine. then when i was doing my valves, i was also tightening 
the bolts on the rocker arms, cause i thought that maybe that could have 
been what it was, and i noticed that one of the bolts on the rocker arm for 
cylinder 4 was loose. i went ahead and started tightening it and it wouldnt 
get tight. now it wasnt really lose or anything but it wasnt tight either. 
the car starts up relativly easy, sometimes it takes some coaxing, but it 
idles perfect.

where should i go from here. and why isnt the bolt getting tight?

sorry for the long winded question, but i am fed up with this damn thing. 
And im too stuborn to take it in to someone and pay them to fix it. I want 
to fix it! (and im cheap! :-) Oh yeah. one more question while i have your 
attention. the deflector plates that go under the cylinders, Is that there 
for cooling?? of just to keep rocks and stuff from hitting the pushrod 
tubes? alright, let those answers come rolling in!! PLEASE?....

joey


_________________________________________________________________
Tired of spam? Get advanced junk mail protection with MSN 8. 
http://join.msn.com/?page=features/junkmail
