From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 2 Jan 2005 01:17:02 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Monza style exhaust,

> You do realize I bought it from you, right?


I have a minimum standard that I won't sell any product that I woudn't use
on my own bus. The monza system meets that standard - that is, it isn't
garbage. I don't get a lot of out-of-the-box defects or units that rust out
in six months. But it doesn't exceed that standard, as do some other
alternatives.

So why do I even list a 'just okay' setup when there are better ones
available (which I also sell)? Because not everyone has the same budget or
the same demands, so I need to provide choices. In the case of the monza
system, some people really love that look, or just don't have the extra
bucks for the stock system. But I do take pains to draw special attention to
two other alternatives that I personally think are better. They are both
designated on my website as 'hot buys' and also described as high quality.
They are the ones I prefer.  The monza system is good enough to make it onto
the site but not to receive either of those allocates. I wouldn't be afraid
to use it myself, but it also isn't the one I'd pick between the various
choices.

The same applies to other products on the website, but in some cases the one
that I prefer isn't the most expensive one. Wheel cylinders, for example. I
sell an Indian one, an Italian one, and a German one. I actually give the
highest praise on my website to the Italian one, as in my experience it's
equal to the German one but cheaper. The Indian one is cheaper still. I
don't highlight it, but I also don't feel uncomfortable selling it. The
defect rate is still well under 1 percent, a very acceptable level.  I have
used it before on my own busses. The German one, on the other hand, is 50%
more expensive but I have not found any significant quality improvement over
the Italian one. So it gets listed for the benefit of those who only like to
buy German parts, but the Italian one gets recommended .

So don't worry, you didn't buy garbage. It has to be of a certain minimum
quality level or I wouldn't sell it. But you also didn't buy the one I'd
have suggested if you'd asked. In my experience the price difference for the
OE style one would have paid for itself at least a couple of times over in
terms of longer lifespan. It would have been a much better value in the long
run, even if pricier up front

Don't ever hesitate to ask me if you want some feedback as to which one I
feel is the best alternative if there are several. Not that my opinion is
the last word, but I'm always more than willing to candidly share it FWIW.
(In fact I've gone on record on the list several times recommending the OE
exhaust system over all else.)

Regardless of which item you choose on my website, I will stand behind it,
so you don't have to worry. If the cheaper one does fail prematurely (i.e.
starts to leak before it actually rusts out), I'll make sure you get another
one pronto.  If I didn't feel confident enough to do that I wouldn't sell it
at all.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
