Date: Sun, 11 Jul 2010 23:33:17 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: heater boxes disassembled and some questions

Ok, proper heat exchangers have been acquired and disassembled.  WOW 
there is a lot of crud in there.  I'm really glad I took them apart 
because no wonder these things always stink up the bus!  After seeing 
all the crap in there, I would never install another set of boxes 
without cleaning them up on the inside first!  Btw, I made a great tool 
for taking them apart - just take a screwdriver, bend the tip, and then 
sharpen it on a sander and use it to grab and pry the edges off.  Works 
great!

So, this week I am going to bring them to get sandblasted and then I'm 
going to have my buddy braze on some new pieces of metal here and there 
to repair the small imperfections.  After that there are a few things I 
have some questions about:

1.  There is some matting in there - I'm guessing it's some kinda 
asbestos matting or something like that.  I'm going to pull it out 
because it's caked with oil and if it's asbestos, that's the last thing 
I want in there.  However, what can I replace it with?  I'm guessing 
that it served a buffer material between the exchanger box and the fins 
so the fins wouldn't chafe through the metal - it would obviously need 
to be something that can withstand high heat.

2.  I would like to finish the boxes - should I powder coat them?  If 
so, can I powder coat everything (including the inside)?  Is that safe 
to powder coat the insides or is it even needed?  I'm not horribly 
concerned about the fins as I think they're aluminum, but I am worried 
about casing of the boxes.  Also, should I even coat the headers or is 
it just going to flake off?

3.  If you look at the driver's side heat exchanger, the #4 port is all 
black and the surface is not as smooth as all of the other sealing 
surfaces.  Is that something I can clean up?  I'm guessing that I'd sand 
it smooth and then also sand all of the other ports on the heat 
exchangers so they're all the exact same length?  Just wanted to see how 
I should proceed on that before I go forward with anything because I'm 
guessing I have to keep it all square with the heads.  I'm guessing just 
sand it at a clean right-angle to the pipe and then run a straightedge 
over both ports to make sure they're the same length?  Or should I 
measure it another way?  Any suggestions on that one?


And that's all the questions I have for now.  I can't wait to get those 
cleaned up and installed in the bus - no more funky smell when I turn on 
the heater!!

Here are some pics of the disassembled boxes for your viewing pleasure:

http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0541.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0542.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0543.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0544.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0545.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0546.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0547.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0548.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0549.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0550.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0551.JPG
http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/aircooledtech/DPP_0552.JPG
