From: "Andrew Burczyk" <Andrew.burczyk(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: "'Avocado Tom Tarka'" <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Jul 2010 21:47:04 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] remote oil pressure locator (type-iv)

What I did was take an old pressure sensor and break out the contacts and
the Bakelite top on it to leave the aluminum  housing with the threads
intact and the oil hole in the middle.  I then drilled out the aluminum
sensor housing and tapped it for a NPT fitting right down the inside of the
threaded section.  I think that it  was 1/16 inch NPT.  I just went to the
local Swagelock supplier and they had display threaded samples and I just
got the one that looked like it would fit and stay within the sensor's
threaded section.  I then put in a 1/16 inch NPT to 1/8 Swagelock tubing
adapter and remote mounted the sensor using stainless steel tubing and a
couple of turns of pigtail to make sure that nothing was going to "work" and
break off.  To get it in just pop off the tubing and spin it in by hand and
gently wrench the Swagelock fitting to tighten the fitting into the block.
Install the tube again using 2 wrenches but leave a little tension so that
the tubing is trying to spin the sensor housing into the block.  I've never
had mine spin out except when I wanted it out.

I tried matching the threads on the sensor before gong this route but I came
to the conclusion that they were metric with a pitch of around 1mm and were
tapered like NPT threads.  I figured that it was some sort of European
metric version of a National Pipe Thread (NPT) that we never see in North
America.

Andy
