Date: Fri, 25 Jan 2008 22:17:43 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Busaru Hot - Update

Thanks to George for replying to my posts about probs
with the conversion - he's offered a different
perspective, a lot of knowledge and a scientific
approach to help me enough times now that some of it
actually trickled into my well-armored brain!

Of note most recently, he led me to Tom Shiels in
Ottawa and his thermostat spacer. The Subaru engine
has the thermostat for controlling the flow of coolant
located on the intake side of the water pump. The
thermostat bypass is the heater circuit. In the
original design, the heater is located only inches
from the engine and the entire heater loop is probably
less than two feet long. On my bus, the heater loop is
probably around ten feet or more. What happens is the
coolant in the heater circuit cools a bunch before it
gets to the thermostat. The thermostat has to have hot
coolant flowing around it before it opens. Especially
in cold weather, the thermostat doesn't open and the
engine overheats. The colder the ambient temp, the
more the engine tends to overheat.

Tom's product lowers the thermostat heatsink out of
the stream from the heater loop and provides another
path for hot coolant direct from the top of the
engine, allowing the thermostat to function as it did
in the original application. I received my new
thermostat spacer today and am quite certain it will
solve that aspect of my cooling system problems.

The next part of the problem involves air pockets
collecting in the cooling jacket areas of the engine.
Just like the air pockets that develop in brake lines,
these air pockets actually become dams stopping the
flow of coolant. Call them air pockets or call them
steam pockets - Not good. I have bleeder valves
throughout the system and one located at the highest
spot of the engine, but it is only after a problem has
developed that I open up the top hatch and access that
bleeder, letting off steam until a full line of
coolant flows out.

The idea is to have a collector tank - kind of a
de-aerator for the coolant - located at the engine
end. I of course have the standard tank in the top of
the radiator and the coolant recovery tank up front,
but since the bubbles float to any high spot (when
they can) and there is nothing but low spots between
the engine and the radiator, the likelihood of bubbles
to make it all that way to be allowed to escape is
very small. The tank at the engine will have a
radiator-style filler neck (by Moroso) on about a
2-qt. tank with an inlet line to the top part of it,
coming from the high point on the engine, and an
outlet from the bottom of it returning de-bubbled
coolant just ahead of the water pump. Coolant will be
pushed into the upper part and pulled from the bottom
part, with adequate volume in between so the flow will
be gentle enough for any air bubbles to float up. The
filler neck has an outlet to a coolant recovery bottle
just like the one at the radiator.

I suppose only one of the two coolant recovery systems
will actually function - the one with the lower
pressure cap release activation. I'll need to be sure
to have that at the engine end. The inlet to the tank
will attach where my high bleeder valve is currently
and will hopefully act as a full-time automatic
bleeder valve!

The (hopefully) final piece of the puzzle will be the
block-off in front of the radiator for cold weather
driving. I had previously worked on some designs for
shutters that could be manually opened and closed, and
had played with just blocking the airflow with a piece
of ABS plastic. I'll be able to use this method for
winter driving after taking care of the thermostat
problem. If it all works as it should, I may just go
back to designing a shutter system.

The shutter system or airflow block-off would not be
necessary if I had a smaller radiator, but this one
works so well in summer heat that I am reluctant to
replace it with a smaller one. I had toyed with a
radiator (coolant) bypass, but when the other cooling
system problems cropped up, I abandoned that idea. It
was installed and was functional, but I did not
understand what was apparently happening at the
thermostat and decided that I had over-complicated the
plumbing and that was the reason for inadequate
coolant flow.

I'll know very soon how it works - if these
modifications are the keys to "finishing" the
conversion. I sure hope so!
-BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.


      ____________________________________________________________________________________
Never miss a thing.  Make Yahoo your home page. 
http://www.yahoo.com/r/hs
