From: Michael Weary <michael_j_weary(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: D Nelson <visibleinks(-at-)hotmail.com>, Type II Mailing List
Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2008 17:09:33 +0100
Subject: RE: [T2] upgrading a 1971 brake system to a later bay system

I just yanked this 1971 Westy, with some very rare option, in decent condition
out of a junkyard and it had been sitting idle for more than 15 years. The
ENTIRE system, lines and all components have to be removed, gone through, and
replaced... they are rusted solid in some areas.

As long as I have to REPLACE everything, I might as well upgrade it... I also
have a complete Porsche system, but that will require too much fab work, and
Firestone, does not want to mess with it. Firestone has stated they will
replace the entire system, if I provide them with places to buy the parts, and
there are many place to purchase all the STOCK (VW) items.

So as long as I'm in there... why not put the best (bolt-on stock system)
available. But they (Firestone) will not do after market either.

But I must disagree with you, on this point about later model bus brake
systems, and use this as my arguement.

The later busses increased the cc's up to 2000cc's. Knowing the Germans well
(I lived there twice for a number of years) they HAD TO upgrade the brake
system to match the output of the motor... therefore the 79 buses (with 2000cc
motors) have a better system.

Michael J. WearyAMSOIL dealer ZO505009Virgin
Islandshttp://www.lubedealer.com/perfprod/


From: visibleinks(-at-)hotmail.comTo: michael_j_weary(-at-)hotmail.com;
type2(-at-)type2.comSubject: RE: [T2] upgrading a 1971 brake system to a later bay
systemDate: Tue, 29 Jan 2008 09:37:19 -0600


From my understanding there really wasn't a whole lot of improvement in the
braking systems. The master cylinder is the same. The calipers and pads are 71
& 72 specific and the pads are a bit thinner - rotors are 71 and 72 specific
as well. Early 73s share the same power booster servo. A 71 system thats in
great working order will stop the bus great, even if its a loaded down camper.
To be honest I'm questioning why you would want to do this - the amount of
cash and work involved doesn't seem like it would yield very much.  I am about
to install new rotors on my 71, the difference between the original and new
German is substantial - its hard to tell how worn out they are by looking at
them. These are nice beefy heavy rotors. Yummmmm. -Daniel> and what is
involved in upgrading the complete brake system to a lter bay> system 73-79.

Connect and share in new ways with Windows Live. Get it now!
_________________________________________________________________
Express yourself instantly with MSN Messenger! Download today it's FREE!
http://messenger.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200471ave/direct/01/
