Date: Fri, 28 Jan 2005 19:29:33 -0800 (PST)
From: Greg Thompson <gretnagreg(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: lurkers (longish)

On behalf of the several hundred lurkers on this list
I'd like to express my thanks to everyone for their
opinion, knowledge, expertise or general chatter
regarding our beloved buses.

I've got a 74 single cab which I adore and which has
received help from me which came from folks on this
list.

I've got a 79 automatic Westfalia, still with the
original engine that I bought for $500 and to date
have over $13,000 and it's stil not in my garage yet.
(although it is beautiful and very close to being
finished) I bought this particular bus after
heart-wrenching conversations with Chris Mills in
Tennessee (via this list) who gave me great counsel.
(Chris, you may not remember...I had an FSU.edu
address before.)  These buses are a passion to me and
I would not be able to do all of the things that I do
with them without the collective knowledge of this
list.  I formerly worked at a local VW dealership in
the late 70's and have always had a strong affection
for VW's.  There's not much local expertise out there
anymore, but this list more than makes up for it.  

Sometimes in the morning I read my emails and have
50-100 emails from this list.  They all have something
to offer.  I suspect there are lots of others who get
up, read their email and learn quietly, or file away
the messages particular to whatever issue might be
current with their bus at the moment or one they know
will be in their future. My thanks to Chris, Karl,
Access Bob, Mark Hanline, Don Teluja (sp?), Dr. Tim,
VwBrain and so, so many others who have come to my
rescue so many times whether they knew it or not.  Now
I think I've motivated myself to donate to the list
again.  Thanks to you all.  Greg

=====
'74 Single Cab
'79 Westy
'02 Jetta Wagon TDI
