Date: Sun, 23 Jun 2002 18:35:33 -0700
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
To: "vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM" <vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM>,
Subject: Aridzona Fires - Report from Rob Muir

As many of you know, Rob Muir (son of John) lives just east of Show Low, 
AZ.  I wrote him yesterday and asked how it was looking.  The following 
is his answer.

Jim

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jim,
     Thank you for your concern re the Rodeo and Chediski fires.  We 
live in Vernon, AZ which is 14 miles east of Show Low.  We haven't been 
told to evacuate yet, but the fire is supposed to engulf Show Low before 
noon today.  I don't expect we have much time here.  Hopefully a day of 
so.  The fire is moving NNE.  Hundreds of home are gone now, I'm afraid. 
  Former football great and Phoenix arena football coach Danny White's 
home went up yesterday.  So new that they hadn't moved in yet.  The two 
fires have merged now and the front of the fire is 50 miles wide and 
over 250,000 acres are involved..  The Rodeo fire was started by 
somebody burning trash near an old White Mountain Apache tribe rodeo 
grounds.  Due to the strict rules in force, this was illegal, of course. 
  The Chediski (white rock in Apache,btw) fire was started by a lost 
hiker who started a fire to draw attention.  So both fires are 
human-caused and were preventable.  Because the woods have been closed 
since early Spring, I haven't had my Westy out so far this year despite 
all our winter plans.  It just occurred to me that if the next few days 
don't go well, we might be living in her.  Think good thoughts and I'll 
keep you posted.
Later,
Rob

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

I then wrote and asked permission to forward.  His reply:

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Not a problem, Jim. The fire has just reached the western edges of Show 
Low after a less windy day. The Rodeo fire is moving about 4 miles in 
every 12 hours. I charged the batteries on our Westy today and topped 
off the fuel. We intend to retreat to a square mile of state land behind 
our place that we can access through a gate in my fence. There is a lake 
out there that only has water during our monsoon season and has little 
vegetation on it right now. We'll circle the wagons out there and I'll 
be able to ATV it up to the house to fight any spot fires until 
discretion forces me back to the lake. We'll set up the Westy out there 
and park my old Porsche and our commuter cars on the dry mud flats. I 
think they'll be OK.

We'll keep you posted. I've attached a recent digital photo taken from 
our house. The view now is just all brown smoke horizon to horizon.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Picture is at: <http://wetwesties.type2.com/RodeoFire17.jpg>

Pray for rain!

Jim


