Date: Sun, 2 Jun 2002 20:56:38 -0700 (PDT)
From: Matthew Henricks <mjhenks(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2 <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Looking for tips for Metal replacments and sandblasting

OK,  As i said in my "New project" posting, this 61DC
has more rust repair then i have ever tackled in the
past.  I am looking for any words of wisdom (Besides
having someone else do it) that may be out there.  

I am also looking for either a cheap sandblaster in
the LA/OC (California) area or a place to rent a blast
booth in the same area.

What i need to do is:

-  Lower front Nose.  Inner and outer lower 3" are
rusted thru.  I have read all of Kelly's (Metal
Wizzard) pictures on this but need to re-read them.  I
will either use his panels if i can or find a original
nose to splice in.  The rust is from seam to seam but
is only above the horizontal seam in back of the
bumper.  Basically from that seam to about 1" above
the "V" in the nose.

-  Rockers  Both sides need attention.  Under the 3rd
door needs to be completely replaced.  What should i
use and where to weld from?  The floor and door locks
are in great shape.  Rust is limited to the lower
rocker area above the lower seam.

-  Rear heater tube support.  I think WW repro's this.
 Correct?  I have no idea how to tackle this one. 
Anyone??

-  Front floor plates.  Both sides.  Preaty simple cut
and weld.  Any tips out there?

-  Rust inside the gates.  I acid dipped my last DC
gates to get the rust from the inside out.  I think
pored paint into the inner channel to coat it and
protect it.  I wan not happy with the results though
because the gates "weeped" for over a year later.  Any
other ideas?  Do i have to cut the inner channel open
to get it out?

-  Ripples in the bed.  Someone loaded something heavy
in the back of the bed above the engine.  there is
probably a 1" deep sag all the way across the bed in
the back.  It is right between the 2 bed supports that
can be seen from the engine bay.  Any tips on pushing
this back out?  Any tools out there to do a good job
of it?

Thanks for the help.  I will have pictures of these
areas in about a week.  for now i would appreciate any
all help.

Thanks
Matthew

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! - Official partner of 2002 FIFA World Cup
http://fifaworldcup.yahoo.com
