Date: Tue, 22 Apr 2003 21:12:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Ray Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 14 inch versus 15 inch

>What is the difference (in tire needs) between a
modern minivan and our VW's?  Weight? Height?
_______????

I doubt weight.  Some current minis are fairly
heavy.  OUr buses are much taller height,
narrower (excepting the MPV and 1st gen Odyssey),
especially IMHO topheavy.  Think of the way your
bus leans when you come off an interstate and
onto a curved ramp at speed.  Now watch an
admittedly heavy (even heavier?) but low slung
Crown Vic or older Mercedes (these have been
mentioned lately).  Which one seemed to put a
great part of the total vehicle on the front
outside tire?  Right, the bus.  Sometimes the
majority of the weight of the vehicle is
transferred to that one tire do height, narrow
width, and top heavy nature of ours buses.  I
believe that's why some tires that might be good
enough on a heavy passenger car aren't good
enough on a bus.  

There is probably something inherent in the front
suspension too.   I do not notice that other
types of suspensions are as easily affected by
swishy tires.  For example, your average C2500
pickup with passenger P225/75/15s instead of
LT235/75/15s does not suffer as drastically as a
bus or vanagon with passenger tires instead of
reinforced tires.   And putting reinforced tires
on my toyota vanwagon didn't improve its
handling.  

My name is Ray... and I'm a tire nazi.  
