Date: Sat, 19 Oct 2002 12:23:43 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Help with final decision on tires for Westy

Captain Nemo indicated that, if he thought the Agilis was the right tire 
for his application, he'd buy the CooperSRM II Radial LT, in 185 R 14C, 
with the almost the same specifications as the Agilis, for $30 less per tire.

The overall diameters are similar: Cooper shows 25.50 inches, and the 
Agilis shows 25.6 inches.  Cooper shows 1,875 pounds at 65psi, and Agilis 
shows 1,710 at 54psi. The Cooper would probably rate the same 1,710 at 
54psi. Most of the time, I'd probably run either tire at something closer 
to 44 pounds in the rear, and less in front.  So, I'm really interested in 
the way the sidewalls stabilize the vehicle with regard to side-wind vectors.

And all the brands I am considering are reinforced and probably adequate in 
this category if one controls the actual load and speed.

The Continental is a 94R, indicating a 1,477 load index; the Agilis load 
index is 102R, indicating 1,874 load index; and the Cooper load index is 
102/100 Q, indicating 1,764 and 1,874 load indexes respectively, dependent 
on inflation pressure.  In this reference, the Q and R stand for speed 
ratings, with Q = 99mph and R = 106mph..both are considerably beyond any 
speed my bus will ever approach.

The "R" speed rating for the Michelin Agilis at a upper load index of 102 
(1,874 at 65psi) probably indicates slightly more resistance to side wind 
forces than the other tires.  The "Q" speed rating of the Cooper is 7 mph 
lower than the Michelin, so I guess that indicates a construction 
difference.  The Continental carries a 94 load index (1,477 pounds at 
40psi) and a speed rating of "R" at that pressure.....106mph at 40 
psi.  So, I can drive the Continental faster than the Cooper, but I can't 
load the vehicle as high. And I'm not going to be driving anywhere near 100 
mph anyhow.

Well, what are some of the realities? If I buy the Continentals, I can only 
run them at 40psi maximum cold pressure, and load them no greater than 
1,477 pounds per tire.  My Westy GVWR  is 4961 pounds maximum.  Of that, 
2227 is on the front axle and 2,800 on the rear axle.  That calls for a 
1,400 load rating on each rear tire.   Side-wind situations could load 
either rear tire much higher, perhaps beyond the Continental's 1,477 pound 
load index value. A 77 pound safety margin isn't much. It doesn't make me 
very happy.

If I go with the Cooper, or any tire that carries an 1,874 pound load index 
at 65 psi, I can run that pressure up to 65 psi and have a 474 pound safety 
margin on either rear tire, as opposed to a 77 pound margin with the 
Continentals.  I like that idea and that option and that potential safety 
margin.  If I load my bus pretty heavy, I can expect the tires to get hot 
and the pressures will go up with the heat. With the higher load index and 
at the higher pressure, if I travel at the same 60 mph pace, then I will 
have a greater margin of safety for encountering side-winds and truck-passings.

I like the idea of the safety margin and the option of running the 
pressures up in the rear tires, to accommodate heavy loading situations.

If I were running my bus in mainly city driving, with only myself and one 
passenger, I'd be comfortable with the Continentals. They would probably be 
OK for short trips in hot weather, with minimal loads of passengers and 
baggage. For extended travel in hot weather at freeway speeds and packed 
for a week of traveling, I think I will require the higher load ratings and 
pressure options of the Cooper/Agilis/Bridgestone/etc brands. The "D" 
rating looks critical for my maximum usage and subsequent safety margins.

I now see a reason for paying the extra few hundred for the higher load and 
speed ratings. I'm not sure which brand will get the nod, but I am closer 
to a safe choice than I was when I started this decision making process.

  I GREATLY appreciate all the input from so many interested and 
knowledgeable list members, who apparently view a tire question as being 
very important. When it comes to tires, brakes and steering, many lives are 
on the line, and I give those considerations every bit of focus that I can 
muster. It is reassuring to discover others of the same persuasion. Thank 
you all.

Please review my above ramblings, and offer your insight and criticism. I 
may be way off on any part of it. And I am very interested in finding out 
about it.

Doyt Echelberger
Perhaps less tireless in Ohio,  USA
