Date: Tue, 11 Jul 2006 17:54:26 +0000
From: "mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net" <mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Magic mushrooms - here we go again...

http://news.independent.co.uk/uk/health_medical/article1171389.ece

In other news... Volkswagen anticipates a renewed interest in their van 
lineup due to the research article above...

VW will be releasing in 2007 an exact duplicate of their 1965 VW 
Microbus complete with 40 hp aircooled engine out back, and optional 
will be psychedelic color, flower power paint job, a special edition 
8-track player and collector's series 8-track tapes made by Kytel.

Asked why they would sell a 40HP van in America, VW reminded readers 
that DeWalt's 21-volt cordless drill has 37% more HP and 17% more 
torque than their 2007 "1965 Series" Microbus. They see the diminutive 
HP ratings to be a safety choice. With only 40HP, these vans will 
seldom go fast enough to endanger ANYONE. For that reason VW will not 
be equipping their 2007 Microbuses with seat belts. VW stated that this 
way microbus drivers who partake in various psychedelic substances 
won't endanger other drivers or pedestrians b/c tests have shown that a 
modern lawn tractor to be faster...

VW has also hinted at a "Series 1976" Transporter complete with 
porthole rear sidewindows, FULLY carpeted interior (including ceiling), 
custom chrome chain steering wheel, etc. Another planned retro vehicle 
will be the "Series 1974" Transporter aimed at the married with kids 
crew. This van will sport contact paper woodgrained sides, whitewall 
tires, rubber mats, etc.

Chris in Cookeville
'78 Westy 2,7L
