From: "Stephen Gutknecht (vintagebus)" <IML-vintagebus(-at-)i405.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 14 Dec 2002 15:19:46 -0800
Subject: Towing a splitty with folding / quick disconnect setup (long)

Hello,

Long time no read or post... Tristan and I have been working full time for
ourselves for 18 months and have not had time to do anything VW other than
attend / post pictures from BBB in Lake Havasu back in January.

As some of you know, for 18 months we have been living full time in a RV.
We have reached the point where we are thinking of giving it up (purchasing
a house) or committing further (getting a nicer rig and going at it for 3 to
5 more years).

At this point, it looks like _delving deeper into full timing_ is where we
are headed.  In fact, we have already selected what we believe will be our
next rig:  A vintage Bluebird Wanderlodge bus!  Massive and needs lots of
attention.  The "True American" way of approaching the "German Westy" :)
Engine in rear, special engine that needs special care (two stroke diesel),
requires few but very strong tires, known to leak oil, etc.   A few notable
philosophical differences:  Living with everything you need instead of just
essentials, plus 80 gauges instead of zero.  Obviously travel is more
limited more by both expense and space.


Best of both worlds
=========================
We are seriously contemplating doing a "quick resto" of our unrestored 1967
Westy and using it as a tow car.   Our westy is in working order, but it
needs new paint, poptop, and new seals.  We have avoided taking a tow cars
to date (with our 35' RV we have now), but we know with a rig as big as a
bluebird (and expensive to operate), a toad makes sense.  The term _toad_ is
what RVer's use to refer to the car being towed :)


Quick disconnect / Folding Towbar
====================================
Anyone have experience / recommendations on a quick connect/disconnect tow
setup for a splitty?  Something you can fold in and hook-up/disconnect in
only a few minutes?

The brakes might also be an issue, especially if we load up the Westy.
Anyone have experience linking the brakes?  Is it even possible on a
splitty?  I've never towed anything before, so excuse my ignorance.

I figured I could link the tail lights and brake lights pretty easily myself
with available kits.  I've played with the westy rear lights enough to keep
tinkering/testing until I get the right setup.

The key requirement with 40' of bluebird bus towing a VW Westy: we need to
be able to get it disconnected quickly when we get into town / tight camping
or parking places.

I know we could tow a flatbed to carry the westy, but that somewhat defeats
our desire to be able to "cut the extra length off" when we want.  We would
have to find a place to stow the flatbed whenever we wanted to break camp.
It is not uncommon for us to break camp, stay only a day or two, then back
up and go.  At least when we are "on the road".  So far, we haven't been the
kind to spend 6 months in the same RV park every year.  If we have to spend
6 months, we plan on boondocking (out in free places in Oregon / Arizona /
California / Washington)... and that is why we like the bluebird rig (300
gallons diesel, 136 gallons water, etc.).

All feedback, suggestions appreciated.

Thanks.

P.S.  I really again want to thank all the VW folks who have helped me over
the years.  I'm a computer nerd at heart, will never be a good mechanic.
"Help from friends on the list" has been why I have stayed with the VW's,
and I really doubt I would have gotten into RVing without the experience I
gained purchasing and driving the old VW's.  I've gotten so much great
advice, great assistance (Ronnie, Steve, Thom).  Although I doubt I will
ever enjoy or be able to fix big mechanical things, I have learned from the
best in terms of taking care of and diagnosing problems.

P.S.S.  You would be surprised how much experience reading the vintagebus
list can apply to a 10 year old RV.  While driving 65, I was telling to my
wife that that noise I was hearing from the RV sounded almost exactly like
what VW bus owners describe a tire sounding before it is going to throw a
tread and blow.  We thought it might just be the road, so we kept listening
and looking to see how far the next exit may be (10 or so miles).... 2
minutes later... BOOM!  "Reading smarts" don't always equal "real
experience" - as I didn't pull over and act on it before it blew up - took
out our propane and gas tank lines.  The moral:  Check it out, trust what
you read - even if you aren't certain, you aren't being paranoid :)  Archive
link of one such message I remember reading:
http://www.type2.com/archive/vintagebus/001144.html

  Stephen Gutknecht
  currently in Seattle, Washington
  1967 VW Westy
  1963 VW Double Cab
  1991 Coachman, 35', Ford v8 460 chassis (too much on that chassis)
