From: Jeffrey Hendery <henderyj(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 25 Jun 2007 16:41:57 -0400
Subject: Exhaust and Vacuum Leaks

Ok.  I'm anxious to diagnose a few issues with my '74 Campmobile.  My original
problem(s) is that the bus was running hot.  Several people suggested I needed
to check the timing.  And the first step with timing is to make certain the
valves are good!  Ok so far so good.  Now the next step talks about making
certain the points are good with the correct gap.  Now I didn't check the
points as I installed a new vacuum advance distributor.  So I expect the
points gap is ok. I used a dwell/RPM/volt meter to check the following specs.
And here's what I've found.  At roughly 800 RPM idle speed I have about 42
degrees of dwell.  I know I can adjust the points to increase the dwell but
after reading another user's experience I figure the dwell is about right. (on
an '81 Vanagon dwell is somewhere between 45 - 50)   By the way the 'hot'
running condition appears to have improved. (based on a visual inspection of
the heater box headers)  I can feel a small amount of exhaust leak exactly
where the heater box header pipes connect to the heads. (number 3 and maybe
others ...) Now before I try to diagnose the timing I need to address a
'backfire' condition.  I don't know if the backfire is related to an exhaust
leak or vacuum leak?  When I attempt to start the bus I must crank the starter
several seconds with ALOT of gas before the engine will start.  When it
finally does start the engine SLOWLY comes to life and will idle ok.  When I
give it gas the system appears to hesitate and wants to backfire.  Eventually
the condition improves with gradual applied pressure to the gas the engine
will accelerate somewhat normal.  Where do I start to make certain the vacuum
system is operating correctly? I connected the vacuum advance from the
distributor to a second connection/port where the braking vacuum boost
connects to the weber progressive carburetor.  There are two additional ports
on the weber progressive carburetor.  Maybe these need to be plugged?  What do
you think?

I will eventually replace the stock muffler. (it's way too old and has leaks)
The headers are another story.  Since I believe there are also leaks where the
headers connect to heads I suppose I'll have to pull the headers.  What do I
check for?

Thanks in advance!
_________________________________________________________________
Invite your mail contacts to join your friends list with Windows Live Spaces.
It's easy!
http://spaces.live.com/spacesapi.aspx?wx_action=create&wx_url=/friends.aspx&m
kt=en-us
