Date: Mon, 19 Nov 2001 17:53:48 -0800 (PST)
From: "Mike, just a bus driver." <turkisbus(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: list bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Ever get your bus stuck?

Tonight when I was leaving work I decided to drive
through this mud puddle that is always in front of
where I park my bus. I park on a incline that faces an
area that is going to be a "park" for the complex. I
always leave and kinda get my wheels in the dirt, but
tonight I wanted to get her feet wet. The intent was
to go down the incline enter the dirt/mud and when I
hit the water hang a left and leave. Well I went down,
hit the dirt turned left and got stuck in the
mud/water.

Man that stuff was plenty deep!! I started thinking
about how much it is gonna cost to have the tow truck
to come and rescue me, then I start thinking about me
laying in the mud and hooking up the tow line. Then I
got out and took a look, I could hop to dry land from
the drivers door. The bus was surrounded by water
hubcap high. I said I ain't gonna give up without a
fight, IT IS a bus. So as soon as I go to get back in,
a guy in a Pacific Bell van pulls up and offers some
help, sure was nice but I was more than embarrassed.
He had some rope and while he was un-tangling his mess
I kept rocking the bus back and forth, throwing mud
and water the whole time. Well I am here to tell you
tonight that I got that 'Ol kombi out of that rut. And
my only two regrets are that I didn't have my camera
with me, and that everyone at work was watching me!!

Mike
64 muddy kombi

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Find the one for you at Yahoo! Personals
http://personals.yahoo.com
