From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "'Type2 Mailing List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'ACCESSYS(-at-)smart.net'" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Date: Tue, 27 Jun 2006 10:39:57 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] 72-79 Pick-ups?

> > My '78 German made crew cab (with type 4 engine)
> > came from El Salvador.

> when I was last down there the temptation was almost
> overwhelming, how difficult was it to get it into and
> licensed in the USA.


It was amazingly easy, as I didn't have to do it. :-) In this particular
case, the crew cab had already been imported and had lived in Texas for a
while.

However I have done it before, as I sometimes imported classic Mini's from
the U.K., which involves a similar process. That is one way that I manage to
sell Bus parts cheap.  Bringing over a container of VW parts from Europe
costs many thousands of dollars. If the container is packed floor to ceiling
I can cover this cost by spreading it among all the parts. But a problem
arises when I have 3/4 of a 40 foot container worth of Bus parts ready to
ship that customers are anxiously awaiting, and must pay the same price to
ship the container 3/4 full as I would if it were full. My customers don't
want to wait until I can locate another 10 feet worth of parts (which is a
lot more parts than you'd think, stacked to the ceiling), yet at the same
time I can't afford to pay 40 foot container rates to ship 30 feet of parts
and 10 feet of air.

My solution in those situations is often to find an older Austin/Morris Mini
in England and import it in the same container. Being an unusually small
car, it takes up little space, but if I can sell it for maybe $1200 profit
it nearly covers the shipping cost of the 1/4 of the container that would
otherwise have been empty. (Anyone looking for a classic Mini at a good
price?)

So, to answer your question... If the vehicle is under 25 years old, the
hurdles are unsurmountable. This is why late model Brazilian Kombi's don't
make it into the country unless someone figures out a way to circumvent the
rules. Believe me, don't even try. The vehicle has to be legally certified
to meet U.S. safety and emissions standards, up to and including paying a
licensed company to crash-test multiple samples that you paid for until you
can prove that one survived. (At which time you are only allowed to bring in
the precisely identical year, model, and trim package that survived the
crash.) Forget it. It may be worth the expense if you're importing a few
dozen $150k luxury cars, and can sacrifice one or two in order to bring in
30 more. But it could never be affordably done for a Bus ... and even if it
could, no Brazilian or Mexican bus would meet those standards no matter how
many you crashed.

However, if the vehicle is 25 years old or older (which of course now
includes all German made busses), it is exempt from all EPA and DOT safety
and emissions requirements. Basically you're filling out several forms but
just checking off exempt, exempt, exempt. I pay a customs broker to fill out
the import paperwork and I fill out the EPA and DOT docs. In my case that
really isn't costing me extra, since I have to pay him to fill out import
paperwork for the parts in the container anyway, but it would cost hundreds
of dollars if you were to pay a broker to do it just for one car.  It may
take Customs several days to approve the import, especially with new
Homeland Security procedures. Basically any governmental agency can decide
they want to put their hands on it for any reason, and if so, they can do
any inspection they want at your expense. For example, I have had to have
Mini's fumigated at the border because the Department of Agriculture found
soil samples in the treads of the tires, and soil from England is not
importable due to hoof and mouth disease. (Of course there were traces of
soil on the tires -it's a used car!)  It all depends on how picky the
customs agents are, and whether they're having a bad day. Incidentally, the
same thing applies to importing anything into the U.S.  There are
regulations for absolutely everything, right down to what sort of wood the
pallets can be made of that the merchandise is sitting on. One wrong step
and you can be out thousands of dollars, or even see your shipment rejected
and sent back to whence it came. What's more, Homeland Security can also
decide to do a random security inspection, and force you to pay union labor
to have your cargo transported to their facility and unloaded and sorted
through, which is at your expense even if they don't find anything amiss.

Once you get the vehicle in, you have the pleasure of dealing with your
state department of transportation to title it. This can vary greatly by
state. Here in PA, I have to submit copies of all of the import
documentation.  I make sure to cross all my t's and dot all my i's, but
still I usually have to argue with them when they try to require
documentation which does not exist and is not actually required by state or
federal regulations. Theoretically if the U.S. government considered it to
be legally imported, they're supposed to title it, but if the beaurocrat
feels that he wants to excersize his domain over his little fifedom, he will
hassle you just because he can. Eventually they always let it through,
because ultimately they must if you did everything right, but often not
without a hassle. It seems that they don't feel like they did their job
unless they find something to nit-pick first. :-)

Of course my vehicle importing experience is out of Western Europe, which is
comparatively easy because the rules are clearly laid out and generally
consistent. When dealing with some third world countries there are also
export hassles; getting the foreign authorities to allow you to legally
export the vehicle (or anything) out of the country in the first place. In
some countries this can add further grief and cost, as multiple beaurocrats
may demand bribes in exchange for stamping the export papers. For example,
in Mexico nearly 30 percent of the average citizen's already-meager income
is spent paying bribes to various underpaid government officials just to
receive basic services, avoid fabricated traffic tickets, or otherwise
obtain what we Americans take for granted as paid for by our taxes.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
