From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Dec 2003 21:57:57 -0500
Subject: Gas Heaters (Was: 72 bus and 412 motor)

> The heater boxes from a 412 are very weak compared to 
> those used on a bus. They will fit, but they don't produce
> nearly as much heat. 72-74 bus heater boxes will fit just
>  fine and give much better heat.


411's and 412's came with Eberspacher BA4 gas heaters (or boosters, as
they were correctly called, as - unlike the Southwind/Stewart Warner
heaters they were designed to augment, not replace, the heater boxes).
This is why 411/412's had weak heat exchangers. Those heat exchangers
were not intended to be the sole source of heat, but rather to pre-heat
the air on its way to the gas heater booster.

If you will be using the 412 setup without a gas heater, you MUST use
the 72-74 heater boxes, as the 411/412 heater boxes alone will be
pitifully insufficient. Incidentally, I still have a small quantity of
German ones for $149 - cheaper than, and far superior to, the ones made
today. Anyone who owns a '72-74 bus should go buy one right now before
they're gone, as they're an incredible bargain  -
http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=021256091M . 

But, if you have access to a 411 or 412, it may still have its BA4 gas
heater (well hidden under the car's rear deck area as I recall). Grab it
and count your blessings!  It is very similar to the much-coveted BA6
found in late model busses. The main differences are that the furnace
body is smaller and it doesn't have an added booster fan between the
heat exchangers and it. However, it will work well in a Bus, and down
the road, if you find a BA6 body, you can simply add the booster fan and
swap out the body.

You will still want to use real Bus '72-74 heat exchangers, as the
"mickey mouse" ones on a 411/412 are insufficient for a bus even with
the BA4 installed. And you may want to put a bilge blower before the BA4
to substitute for the blower that the BA4 lacks (but the BA6 has). Note,
do NOT put it after the BA4, as it may melt from the heat of the BA4;
and don't get too high powered a fan or it may move the air through the
furnace too quickly to heat sufficiently.  Even with an aux fan the
BA4's a bit too low-output for a Bus, but it ain't bad, and maybe down
the road you'll find a BA6 body to put in its place.

One note  The BA4 and 6 consist of a large number of components, some of
which are in the dash, under the vehicle near the front, etc. (not to
mention the wiring harness that goes front to back). In other words,
many of the necessary components are not directly connected to the
heater body. You should make sure you get everything from the donor car
or bus (or Vanagon), as many of these ancilliary parts are either no
longer available new or shockingly expensive. The type2.com resources
pages include a complete Eberspacher BA4 service manual (courtesy of
yours-truly) and also a BA6 manual (which Richard Atwell tells me is a
bit less complete). This will tell you what you need to take off, and
will also give you plenty of info on how to install, test, and
troubleshoot everything pre-installation. When I put a BA4 in my '77
Westy, I got the whole thing running smoothly in the comfort of my
kitchen (feeding it with gas from a coffee cup) before I actually
mounted it, so that I would spend the minimum amount of time futzing
around on my back under the bus in the cold with a flashlight. And
later, when I found a BA6 body, I easily removed the BA4 body and
replaced it with the higher-output BA6 body, using all of the BA4's
ancilliary parts.  Then the heater was pure aircooled heaven - instant
heat at the touch of a button, even if the engine was still cold (or not
running at all, while camping). No hot-water-based heater could touch
it. My wife's Passat with its heated seats and dual-zone climate control
has nothing on a bus with a BA6. 

It's a big job to install a BA4/6 in a bus from scratch, but it's a
magnificently designed system - very effective (particularly the BA6,
which is properly sized for a bus) and, if working completely to spec,
quite safe in my opinion (something which cannot be said of all gas
heaters). It's typically German over-engineered (part of what makes it
so hard to install; many parts) - but cautious engineering is a good
thing when you're driving around with a highly combustable furnace
mounted under your bus.  In my opinion the design tends to err on the
side of caution (if working properly), with a safety switch that shuts
it off if there's no flame to prevent accumulation of explosive fumes.
This means that it's more likely to trip the circuit breaker
unneccessarily (leaving you shivering) than to keep running when safety
dictates that it shouldn't (leaving you in flames). That said, a gas
heater is not a place to cut corners. Take the time to ensure all of the
parts work correctly, and remember that you're dealing with used parts.
If you're not willing to install it correctly and methodically, don't do
it at all. Those manuals on type2.com will help you do it safely; use
them and heed them.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
