Date: Wed, 17 Oct 2001 12:49:06 -0400
From: Kathryn Bowman <BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "Flowers, John" <flowersj(-at-)gallatinriver.net>,
Subject: Fuel pump problems...

On Oct 16th John Flowers wrote:

Yesterday my '66 quit about a block from home. I towed it home and found
that there was no fuel coming into the pump. I took out the cloth line an=
d
replaced it, I ran a wire through the steel line and got some sediment fr=
om
the line that was probably causing the blockage. I took my air compressor=

hose and blew through the fuel line to ensure that it is clear, fuel runs=

freely into the pump. I also removed the fuel pump, cleaned and reassembl=
ed
it, there was no visible problem with the screens, membranes or springs. =
I
reinstalled the pump, replaced the cloth fuel line and fuel filter to the=

carburetor. Clamped everything down and turned the engine...no fuel from
the
pump. I took off the pump and as a test, I replaced it with a pump from a=

recently running engine, same style pump, the one with four screws at the=

top and the conical shaped screen behind the brass nut on the side.
With the second pump there is still no fuel coming out. I took off the pu=
mp
and checked the connecting rod, it rises and falls as the engine turns.
I'm stumped, any one got a suggestion???
Thanks in advance
John Flowers


Hi John,

First off, do you have a Bentley Workshop manual?  The listed procedure f=
or
overhauling a fuel pump is thoroughly explained and illustrated there.  I=
f
you don't, contact me and I'll walk you through it by phone.  I've also
written this all up as a tech tip in the past for both the List (archives=
?)
and as a tech tip article for NEATO's "Old Bus Review" newsletter.  =


Did you say that both fuel pumps (the original and the test replacement)
failed to flow ANY fuel at all?  How long has it been since you've replac=
ed
ALL of your fuel lines with German braided cloth fuel lines?  I'd do it
again since you are finding sediment in your current line(s).  That
sediment is coming into your Busses' fuel system with either your gasolin=
e,
or more likely from dirt/corrosion that has settled inside the bottom of
your tank.  While replacing your fuel lines, first "safely" drain your ta=
nk
dry, remove the fuel cock assembly (you know, the metal pipe that exits t=
he
very bottom of the tank, held on by that large aluminum nut) at the botto=
m
of your tank, and pull out the fine mesh fuel filter screen.  Then
depending on it's condition, clean and/or replace the brass screen with
"new" red fiber gaskets and reinstall it.  New brass screens, gaskets,
clamps, good hose and even new fuel pump rebuilt kits are reasonably pric=
ed
through Wolfsburg West, BFY or Vintage Parts, etc.  While it's all out,
reach up there with your pinky finger (or someone elses' small pinky
finger, or devise a bent piece of coat hanger wire or something) and try =
to
get it into the tank and feel around for dirt/ sediment/rust. =

Unfortunately, if this is an issue, you'll need to pull the tank and
flush/clean or have it cleaned out to end your sediment problems.  I hope=

that your situation is not that complicated, but even if it is, you'll
still need to do this to avoid more future problems.  Besides it's not th=
at
complex a procedure and can be done easily by most backyard mechanics wit=
h
simple tools.

Okay, back to your fuel pump.  VW has/had a special tool that mounted in
place of your fuel pump to accurately measure the amount of "stroke" or u=
p
and down movement of the fuel pump rod as you rotated the engine by hand.=
 =

Brian Holcomb up in your neighborhood made a copy of mine.  With that too=
l,
a mechanic could then adjust/correct the "stroke" or fuel pump rod moveme=
nt
by adding or subtracting paper gaskets.  That might be some of your
problem.  Also the rod ends can slowly wear down over time, and should be=
 a
particular length (I can't remember how long right this second).  Another=

problem is that the rubber diaphragm in the pump may be
installed/re-installed too tightly not allowing it to flex and pump the
right amount of fuel per stroke.  This is very common after backyard fuel=

pump rebuilds.  Have you removed the fuel line from the fuel pump to the
carb "AT" the carb and checked to see if it's clear. Finally perhaps some=

of that sediment you talked about has made it's way into a carb passage a=
nd
temporarily clogged the carb up. But since you say that the fuel isn't
leaving the pump, I'd guess your problem is in either the way the pump wa=
s
previously re-assembled or in a clogged gas line or a very clogged brass
screen in the bottom of the tank.

By the way, when messing with gasoline and the fuel system at the back of=

your Bus, you do have safety glasses, a fire extinguisher or two RIGHT NE=
XT
to you, and better yet someone there to put you and the Bus out in case t=
he
unimaginable were to happen???  And with all that volatile fuel vapor
about, work in a very well ventilated area, like outside.  No ignition
sources anywhere nearby too!  I don't mean to sound pessimistic, but I kn=
ow
you (thanks again for the coffee at the Camp Crusty), and would like to
continue to know you for a long, long time to come!

Get a hold of me if you need more help John!

Bill Bowman
NEATO
