Date: Sun, 20 Feb 2011 19:56:28 -0500
From: Mike Benthin <muts(-at-)verizon.net>
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net, "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]where is my fuel going,

Hey Bob, I feel for you-but I can't believe Maryland allow 6 for CO%, 
where in NJ I am still trying to pass Nyssa's 75 bus because it goes 
above 3.0 (played with retarding timing to 5 deg after TDC (75 stat) and 
opened up AFM 3 whole turns (leaner)- then C0 went to 2.6 but HC were 
just over?  So I turned it back in one turn and then both were just over 
spec!  I went through inspection 3 times in an hour and then gave up. 
Different sniffer each time- they enjoyed driving my bus in.  I will 
report the actual numbers to the list when I can have her bus back.
    Your gas is obviously too rich for your rpms/temp.-  Just for fun, 
did you try leaning the AFM by increasing the tension on the spring a 
few clicks, making the flapper open less easily?  If this has little 
effect, you are losing gas further down the line into the manifold 
somehow.  Did you try totally blocking the cold start valve hose?   The 
injectors get grounded to open- could the signal from the ECU be 
grounding somewhere else? As for the temp sensor, it being the right ohm 
value is of little use if its wire does not make it to the ECU (like bad 
connector in MPC or is not well grounded in case)- for latter, check 
value from connector to body ground, not its own base. This can make ECU 
think it is 25 below outside.  You have a fuel pressure gauge- when you 
turn off the engine, does it go down really fast, implying a leak somewhere?
