Date: Sat, 08 Apr 2006 16:32:48 -0700
From: Volks-Web Support <support(-at-)volks-web.net>
Subject: WAS AFM - List Magic

Below is a message I just sent to Karl...  The story is that I've been 
trying to diagnose a hesitaion problem in my '79 CA Westy - for almost 
SIX years.  Spent lotsa money and time, but it took the recent afm 
discussion and some sort of rare planet alignment that resulted in the 
"right place - right time" kind of miracle that is our reward here...

Moral of this story - make sure your afm is the correct one for your bus 
- seems awful basic but boy howdy.

T
___________________________________________________________________________________
Once again, Karl, you've brought sunshine into my life.

Got the afm today, took me all of 10 minutes to swap it out.  From a no 
fire situation, she started right up, drove a few blocks, all good, and 
a longer drive and multiple starts didn't faze 'er.

I'm cursing the dung-eating waste of skin that decided (who knows when?) 
to swap in the wrong afm.  I've been dealing with this problem for 
almost 6 years, and gawd only knows if it caused other expenditures, 
like that head replacement 1.5 yrs ago.  While I'm ecstatic that I 
finally figured it out, it's a sad commentary on all the mechanics I've 
dealt with (all with 30+ years experience with VW, mind you) that DIDN'T 
figure it out.

And if it hadn't been for a "feeling" that made me jot down the p/n when 
this latest mechanic was swappin' 'em out, and your timely email to the 
list that reminded me to check that p/n against your expert info, and 
you caching it and sending it posthaste, I still woulda been in 
hesitation/no go hell.

Ah, this world works in strange ways.

I'm gonna take the swapped in afm back to Marty and suggest he trade me 
the check I wrote him for it (a mere $50).  He diagnosed and replaced 
the hall sender, so that was $215 I'll never see again that didn't solve 
my problem.  The $50 was on top of that.

So, I'm very happy and very pissed off all at the same time.  Feels like 
life.
