Date: Sat, 2 Feb 2002 16:00:12 -0800 (PST)
From: Al Ferguson <al_ferguson01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2 List Post <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Question for the electrical experts

Hi Volks,
I have ordered and received my 3" Bilge Blower from
U.S. Boat ($19 + $8 shipping) - looks like a nice
sturdy unit. I am going to install it in-line to
increase my heater CFMs. I intend to do as one on this
list suggested, remove my rear window defroster switch
(not working for a decade) and install a dash mounted
Bug wiper switch (off,low and high speed). So here is
a question for you electrical experts that often
contribute... does a standard Bug wiper switch have
some sort of built in relay that will make the fan go
hi or low? Another on this list has suggested that
this is a hopelessly doomed undertaking for lack of
said relay. Is this a faulty plan? If yes, can you
suggest an alternative plan (thereby saving me the $25
wasted bucks on the switch). HERE IS THE CATCH - can
this alleged alternative plan be described in laymans
terms? :-)
Thanks,
Al
1978 VW Riviera Camper

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Great stuff seeking new owners in Yahoo! Auctions! 
http://auctions.yahoo.com
