From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
Date: Fri, 26 Mar 2004 11:27:39 -0600
Subject: oil cooler foam seal

>The foam seal was completely gone when I removed my shroud the first time.
>I replaced it with a strip of self-adhesive weatherstripping from the
>local home center.  the weatherstripping was the rubbery black stuff, not
>the lighter brown foam.
>
>It's worked fine for tens of thousands of miles and shows no signs of
>getting hard or brittle.
>
>

I am glad other people are finding different solutions to the oil cooler air
seal. I certainly do not have the only solution by using silicon caulk.

You stated that the foam has not turned "hard or brittle" after 10's of
thousands of miles.

That's good, however, the OEM foam seal failed prematurely because it got
SOFT and FRIABLE from the heat helping the oil and gasoline solvents
dissolve it.

Your black foam seal must be impermeable to those solvents.

I would test the foam by dropping it in a tin can of oil and another piece
in a tin can of gasoline. Cover with foil and let them sit for a month or so
in the sun. Then see if the foam is absorbing and dissolving in the oil and
or gasoline.  See if the gasoline has turned black and the foam rubs off and
rubs apart (friable) in your hands like little gobs of roof tar. If the foam
and the solvent look exactly like they did when you started the test, then
the foam is impermeable to the solvents. But what about the adhesive on the
foam, is it still there? Will the soaked foam still stick to a hot oil
cooler?

Apparently, you have already proved that the foam can take the engine heat
and not deteriorate for "ten's of thousands of miles".

However, my biggest concern is guiding the air flow with NO SIGNIFICANT AIR
LEAKS. I know my silicon caulk application is watertight and therefore
airtight at the relatively small pressure and larger volume air flows.  A
small leak opening will allow much more air to by pass the oil cooler than
go through it. This is because the air flow through the oil cooler meets
very high flow resistance in the long passage through the tightly spaced
fins which are purposely weirdly bent for turbulance.

So have you recently tested for air bypass leakage? You said you know the
foam has survived after 10's of thousands of miles, so I assume that you had
reason to pull the motor and remove the doghouse tin (not the upright
one-half moon fan shroud) to inspect the foam. I assume you tested it for
many factors which would insure that it was indeed successfully sealing the
edges of the oil cooler and completely guiding ALL the air flow through the
oil cooler.

You tested the foam for original placement and strong adhesion?

The OEM seal covered the whole outside of the oil cooler and was several
inches wide. It was so wide to allow it to touch and seal at most points
against the variable surface of the half-moon fan shroud, such that if one
part of the foam could not reach and squeeze against and seal against the
tin, then hopefully some other area of foam would provide a seal by blocking
any sneaky circuitous route air leaks . Yet your relatively narrow "strip"
of foam can seal better that than all the original foam wide surface area ?

You tested the foam for original structure, not getting soft or friable, and
rubbing off on your hands or blowing away bit by bit?

You tested the foam for original "springyness" to insure a flexible AND
TIGHT seal against the oil cooler and against the tin?

You blew air through the foam to be sure that the foam did not pass air and
was not "open celled" and was still closed cell to completely block air flow
though it?

When the engine was running, after 10's of thousands of miles, you reached
around and tested for aberrant air leaks?

I admit that I have never tested my silicon caulk seal in a running engine.
I just take the engine out every ~3-8 years when the odometer indicates the
engine needs my mandatory ~50,000 mile total valve job. In all these cases,
my silicon caulk seal was really dirty, but otherwise exactly the same as it
was the day it cured. The seal completely blocked any air leaks and
perfectly guided all the air through the oil cooler. The silicon caulk was
stuck tightly to the oil cooler and stuck tightly to the tin. It had the
same physical characteristics; impermeable to engine mist solvents;
impenetrable by hot air; flexible; same structural integrity - tough,
springy, holds it original cured shape exactly, etc. etc.

My primary concern is sealing and guiding the cooling air flow such that all
of the air flow goes through the oil cooler.(seal at oil cooler to one-half
moon fan shroud) It is easy to seal this area with "almost permanant"
silicon caulk.

My secondary concern is sealing the air flow such that all the heated air is
thrown away out the bottom of the engine. I place a bead of silicon caulk
between all the mating surfaces of that air guiding tin. e.g. between the
dog house tin and the one-half moon fan shroud. I want to be sure that the
cooling air, that is now very hot from the oil heat, is completely directed
out the bottom of the engine such that that hot air will be thrown away and
only new ambient temperature air can get sucked back by the fan. It is very
easy to put a thin bead of silicon caulk on the two tin mating surfaces,
such that the caulk completly fills all voids and even gushes out to
indicate a perfect seal.

You do use your foam in between the dog house tin and the one-half moon fan
shroud, and between the final elbow tin and the dog house tin, and between
the final elbow and the front engine to body tin.?

The new fangled "black foam" may work good enough to keep an engine going
for 10's of thousands of miles.

I am sticking to my tried and true silicon caulk.

I hope this thread dies soon. Apparently, there are solutions other than
using silicon caulk.

ggm

I admit I stole the following ascii art from someone with much more artistic
ability than I have

            _______
        /_________\
        (#[__][__][_][\
        |         |   ~ |__|   ]
  ~ =-/(O)\*~**/(O)\=




To thwart some viruses and to be polite:

Configure your Email to send TEXT ONLY -- See the following page:
http://expita.com/nomime.html
