From: Gerry Donathan <gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 25 Dec 2007 16:33:46 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] Engine\transmission

"What signify a few lives lost in a century or two? The treeof liberty must be
refreshed from time to time with the blood ofpatriots and tyrants. It is its
natural manure."-- Thomas Jefferson (letter to William Stephens Smith, 1787)




From: gerrydonathan(-at-)hotmail.comTo: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.comSubject: RE: [T2]
Engine\transmissionDate: Tue, 25 Dec 2007 16:31:10 -0800


I have not taken apart a bus transmission, but a few Bug transmissions and
repaired them using only the idiots guide. A commone problem in bug
transmissions and I could only ASSUME earlier bus transmissions is the shift
fork is made of soft metal, I think it was brass. I tended to break my
shifters doing things liek downshifting real fast around corners trying to
hotrod around in my superbeetle, and well my baja...those are just made to be
run into the sand heh.   If you are lucky and the shift fork broke and you
dont have a problem with all the gears themselves, then you have about a 30
minute fix once you get the transmission removed from the engine. If it is the
shift fork, put some thought into if you want to replace it with another brass
one, or the hardened steel upgrade. the pluses are if you keep using a brass
shift fork and it breaks again, you dont hurt your gears since they are harder
then the brass and just chew up the pieces of the shifter. If you go to the
hardened steel then you are less likely to break it in the future but if you
do, then you need to replace all yoru gears too because the teeth will be
ruined. This is all pretty easy to do, and I am a computer tech as well, not a
mechanic. The only problem I had was putting the planetary gear on the wrong
side when reassembling, so I ended up with 1 foreward gear and 4 reverse gears
:) someone feel free to correct me if the bus transmissions are that different
from bug transmissions.A replacement shift fork if I recall was around 30
dollars for the hardened steel, and like 15 for the brass. Only special tool
you would need is a set of ring pliars. The nice thing about manual
transmissions, is they are so damn simple you cant hardly fail. in the idiots
guide, and so probably in Bentlys too would be a diagram of how the gears
stack on the shafts, so from there its on par with say, replacing a laptop
system board. not hard at all but takes some patients and attention to the
proper steps.

edit: here is a picture of the part I am talking about:
http://www2.cip1.com/SearchResults.asp?Search=shift+fork "What signify a few
lives lost in a century or two? The treeof liberty must be refreshed from time
to time with the blood ofpatriots and tyrants. It is its natural manure."--
Thomas Jefferson (letter to William Stephens Smith, 1787)



Get the power of Windows + Web with the new Windows Live. Get it now!
_________________________________________________________________
Don't get caught with egg on your face. Play Chicktionary!
http://club.live.com/chicktionary.aspx?icid=chick_wlhmtextlink1_dec
