Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2001 10:38:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VWlist <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [VB] Score! jealous 

Things run in cycles and I am apparently way, way, way
out of the vw "cool deal" up swing~ at present...

Past deals:
OG full single cab tilt, including wood, hardware and
canvas from 75-80 year old man for $75.00 after he set
the price "didnt want to hurt me" so he threw in a
full set of 1958-1965 Foreign Car Digest magazines and
a NOS type I seat recliner set in the box.

Bought a 1959 panel with "Solar Advance" painted on
the side and drove it home for $150.00. Like a dumba**
I proceded to pull the engine and tranny and sell it
to someone who became a friend for $300. Will fly back
to RI to be his best man in late September.

'57 PsuedoEuro single cab with 36hp, splitcase,
handcrank, F/R correct ribbed bumpers and tons of
other cool chit that I'd die for now for $1000.00.
Drove it for 6-7 years.

'57 oval rust free and 73k OG miles on it- unaltered
from stock including gas heater $2000. delivered.
Drove it for several years. Sold it for the next
deal... (stupid!)

'83 *aircooled 2.0L* Westy vanagon 23,000 OG miles for
$4000. (1992 pricing) Mint shape excepting of minor
scratch and usual wallpaper delamination. Retired
snowbird resident estate blow out at local "No Bull"
car dealer. They wanted it off the lot ASAP because it
was a Vanagon and they heard that the "heads leaked".
hahahaha. Sure that some one in the car business could
have had it at wholesale for $2000. or less.

'73 181 soft top with curtains- $650. sold for 3x the
money and still got calls on it many months later.

'67 westy for $200. stripped it to a shell and sold it
for $200. Would be a $3500 bus on VWPlanet now. It was
found abandoned 6 owners and many years later in a
junky part of town. I got stuck with the tow/impound
bill because my name was still on the title. there was
no registration to report as sold to DMV. Live and
learn.

I cringe to think of all of the parts that I've p*ssed
away by not knowing my prices and all of the buses
that I've cut up and shoved away that would be better
than alot of what I see on the current FS sites.

<sigh>
-ellis

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Make international calls for as low as $.04/minute with Yahoo! Messenger
http://phonecard.yahoo.com/
