From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 21:54:15 -0400
Subject: FW: Lots of Westy/Bus Stuff  $150/ALL  (Cabinets, Seats, body,

[ Up for grabs again, as the person who originally asked to come get it
wasn't able to arrange it after all....]



It's spring cleaning time. I've accumulated a ton of old Bus and Westy
stuff from when I had my '77 Westy and also restored old Westies and
sold used parts. The '77's gone now (replaced by a Vanagon Westy and a
'78 crew cab for hauling), and I no longer sell used parts or busses, so
this stuff's been gathering dust and mold in a shed in my backyard for
several years now. It's time to let it go and reclaim my shed.

I'm not sure precisely what's there, but I do know that there are a
number of front seats (green plaid, brown vinyl, and blue/green plaid,
not sure about that one), several '76-79 Westy cabinets, and I think
even a sofabed.  I don't know if there's a complete Westy interior there
but there's certainly most of one plus duplicates of some. A couple of
bumpers, too, and probably some other mechanical and body stuff.  Also
the big wardrobe cabinet from an early 70's Westy, although most
everything else is from the mid to late 70's. 

$150 cash takes the entire lot.  But you must come get it, load it, and
haul it away yourself.  And you must take it all. 

But wait, there's more. :-)  There's also a similar but smaller area in
the back of my shop.  I don't remember what's there anymore, probably a
couple more Westy interior bits and a bunch of little stuff.  (Also a
bench seat from a '63 Deluxe Microbus; I don't recall if front or rear.)
If you want that stuff as well I'll make you a good deal.  And finally,
a conglomeration of type 4 engine blocks, heads, and jugs. Not sure of
condition or how many there are but probably a couple of blocks plus
some misc. parts. These are free if you come and get them, but again you
must take them all.

This might be an opportunity for a couple of listmembers in the area to
get together, take a road trip to the Bus Depot, and clean me out. The
stuff at my house will definately fill up your bus and then some (mostly
because they're cabinets, etc.).  Combined with what's at the shop there
are probably a good two bus loads full.

Located in Perkiomenville PA, about 45-60 minutes from Philadelphia,
Allentown, or Reading.  A weekday (nearly any weekday) would be much
preferred, but a weekend day could be arranged.  Please do not ask me to
ship items or send me requests.  If I had the time to catalog, pack, and
ship this stuff, I'd have sold it for a lot more money long ago.  Heck,
I've seen just one of those plaid seats sell for $100 on ebay.  

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
