Date: Fri, 10 May 2002 22:19:12 -0400
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, fmbc <FullMoon(-at-)Hville.Net>,
From: ncbus <ncbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Dizzy rebuild

Hi again,

I received lots of great replies to my earlier post and everyone 
loves their 205T dizzy. I loved mine as well and used it in three 
buses over three years and liked it a lot better than the current 
009. I know the vac can moves the plate but otherwise am unsure if my 
205T is  otherwise in spec .

I was unclear in my first post about the 205T dizzy that I have. What 
I really want to know is aside from a functioning vacuum canister 
what is the best way to clean and rebuild the dizzy?

H.Steve had some good stuff to say and I will summarize his wisdom. 
If there is no play perpendicular to the rotational axis of the shaft 
then that is good. A little up and down play along the axis of 
rotation is acceptable. Do not dunk the a dizzy in carb cleaner to 
get all the gunk off :) The 205T is all vac so there are no weights 
and the only spring is a return spring for the advance plate.

In a previous conversation with the H,Steve he cautioned me to use 
care in the removal of the dog by driving out the pin. It is hard to 
get it out and even harder to get in without mushrooming the end of 
it. There does not seem to be a readily available replacement for the 
pins so BE CAREFUL.

So what else can be added?

Should the shaft be removed and greased or does enough oil flow up to 
keep it lubed?

What kind of grease should be used on the plate if any? BTW, what is 
a good grease to use on the nylon rider for the points when you 
cannot find the little capsule of grease that came with the points?

Are any parts available for rebuilding a dizzy? Is there a place you 
can send a dizzy to be reworked?

Thanks


-- 
Chris
'68 A-wagen
Greensboro, NC
www.mindspring.com/~ncbus/
