Cc: diesel-Vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com, vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
Date: Sun, 13 Aug 2006 20:24:35 -0700
To: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com, buspilots(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Sept 8-10 -- 10th Annual WetWesites/BusPilots ReUnion -- Sept

Just a reminder. September 8-10.

Exactly four weeks from today we'll be savoring the good times we had  
at the TENTH anniversary of WetWesties' inaugural gathering, The  
WetWesties/Bus Pilots ReUnion at Catherine Creek State Park (CCSP) in  
Union, OR. (Actually the first one was a "Union." Since then it's  
been a ReUnion...)

Please consider joining us in our celebration of good buses, good  
food and good friends. This event has been held yearly at Catherine  
Creek State Park outside of Union Oregon on the first weekend  
following Labor Day since Jack, Cris and friends joined a select  
group of Boise Bus Pilots here in 1996.

Lisa and I will coordinate the camping fees. When you arrive, just  
tell the Camp Host that you're with WetWesties and they'll point you  
the right direction. Cost will be $6.50/vehicle/night. Multiple  
vehicles per site is fine.  Parking on the grass is NOT fine. Too  
early to tell if we'll be able to have open fires.  The fire danger  
is currently high, but I saw a herd of young bucks in town this  
morning. Fall may come early and it did rain a couple days ago.

State Park Info:
<http://www.oregonstateparks.org/park_17.php>

Note: CCSP is in a canyon. Analog cell phone coverage is spotty and  
digital is non-existent. Mom won't be able call you.

 From Portland:
<http://www.mapquest.com/directions/
main.adp?go=1&1a=&1c=Portland&1s=or&1z=&1y=US&do=nw&1ex=1&2ex=1&src=maps
&ct=NA&2a=&2c=Union&2s=OR&2z=&2y=US&2pn=&2l=ieUK3E4kzuM%3d&2g=swqDPeMomF
3rdoAI%2f2aVKQ%3d%3d&2v=CITY&2pl=>

 From Seattle:
<http://www.mapquest.com/directions/
main.adp?go=1&1a=&1c=seattle&1s=Wa&1z=&1y=US&do=nw&1ex=1&2ex=1&src=maps&
ct=NA&2a=&2c=Union&2s=OR&2z=&2y=US&2pn=&2l=ieUK3E4kzuM%3d&2g=swqDPeMomF3
rdoAI%2f2aVKQ%3d%3d&2v=CITY&2pl=>

 From Boise:
Just follow EJ, Brent, Chris and Lind. They know the best way. And
Mapquest doesn't! ;o)

 From anywhere else:
You're going here (the little green rectangle on hwy. 203):
<http://www.mapquest.com/maps/map.adp? 
address=&city=Union&state=OR&zipcode=&country=US&title=%20Union%2c% 
20OR%20US&cid=lfmaplink2&name=>

If you get here early, and you've not been here before, we own the  
east end of the campground. Drive to the end of the park and pick a  
spot. (But not by the bridge. That's MINE!) Double up at will. Triple  
up if you need, but STAY OFF THE GRASS! (I promised...)

If you haven't been here before, you might also enjoy this for a  
little background: <http://wetwesties.type2.com/2003/re-union- 
observer.htm>

As always plan on a potluck Saturday night and if we can get it  
together, a potluck b'fast Sunday AM. Lisa will be happy to answer  
any food questions! <whitedov(-at-)eoni.com>

So please! Put it on your calendar. We look forward to seeing all our  
old friends. Both those we know and those we haven't yet met.

Jim & Lisa Arnott
WetWesties
Union, OR
