From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "Vanagon List" <vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com>, "List - Buskatiers"
Date: Tue, 5 Sep 2006 10:06:46 -0500
Subject: BNNTA#21 wrap-up...

Wow!

That about says it all!  Those that made it to the Labor Day weekend 21st
"Buses Nowhere Near The Arch" VW camping event enjoyed unusually cool (highs
in the upper 70s to lower 80s) weather, a beautiful and lush lakeside
campground, lots of door prizes, show awards and a wacky cometition for the
best theme individual and group campsite decoration.  New additions were a
Vanagon based full-service coffee/latte/expresso and "smothie" service for
those early morning wake-ups, and on Sunday a hilarious no holds barred
"slow-drags" contest.  More on that to be developed for next year.

We enjoyed an increase in attendees to 85 VWs with quite a few first-timers
joining the seasoned regulars, the oldest being a '55 and the newest being
several newer Eurovans.  Tons of everything in between!  The longest distance
VWs were from New Mexico and Texas, and one enthusiast, Curt Dilday, flew in
for the event from Australia!

The Corps of Engineers has already locked up the dates for the next BNNTA to
be held over the 2007 Labor Day weekend holiday, so mark your "next-year"
calendars.  There are a few 2005 as well as 2006 event t-shirts still
available, as well as just a few 2006 BNNTA dash plaques for you collectors
out there.  It looks like we'll be able to make a nice donation to the
Salvation Army to honor their efforts in last years hurricane relief once
everything is sorted out.

We thank all of the BNNTA attendees for joining us for a spectacular weeekend
and we hope that you all had a safe and uneventful trip home from the event.
We hope that everyone had a great holiday weekend wherever you were.  Watch
for future event coverage a few months from now in Hot VWs magazine!

A tired but happy...

Bill Bowman
http://www.bnnta.com
bill(-at-)bnnta.com
