From: "rtourand" <rtourand(-at-)telus.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Jul 2008 21:19:21 -0700
Subject: 34 pict3 jetting

Hi All,

I'm rebuilding a 34 pict3 carb for my son. It will be for a 1641 type I
motor going into a '68 bus - the motor itself is from a 74 Bug. We have an
extractor exhaust, 009 dist with pertronix, and a chrome air cleaner.

Now I've read through the posts and read the articles in the tech library
and I'm feeling a little confused. First I find the data about my carb -
which I confirmed when I stripped it down.

 1971 - 1974 


Type:

34 PICT-3


Venturi:

26 mm


Main Jet:

X 127.5


Air Correction Jet:

75Z, 80Z (Ghia)


Pilot Jet:

55


Pilot Jet Air Bleed:

147.5


Accelerator Pump Jet:

50


Power Fuel Jet:

60


Float Needle Valve Diameter:

1.5mm


Float Weight:

8.5 grams


Accelerator Pump Feed:

1.3 - 1.6cc/stroke

Next I read the articles - 


In Jetting a Type 1 Engine, Eugene Palmer writes:


LARGER ENGINES 1641-1776, Depending on the fuel delivery system and other
components, but even with stock carbs and exhaust, please start at.......
150 mains and work up from there, if it's a super set-up with dual carbs and
extractor, it will easily support 160, 165 or even 170 mains...

 I changed the mains to 147 (from 140), and while I was inside I couldn't
help but change the air to 160 (from 150), and the idle down to 52 (from 60
in an effort to keep backfire/sputtering to a minimum). The 02 meter got
richer around town, but there was now a stumble just off idle and in the
super light throttle range. I ran the timing ahead to about 18-20 BTDC (from
15) on the 009/Pertronix..


Then in Over Jetting by Barb & Eric I read - 


We think you might have gone with the wrong solution. The stock main jet for
your bus was a 116. You are probably running too rich in the lower RPMs
while accelerating, which will wash out your rings with too much fuel in the
lower RPMs. Instead, you probably would be better off with a smaller air
correction jet in your carberator


Then I read in AirCooled.net tech article
(http://www.aircooled.net/gnrlsite/resource/articles/jetting.htm)  - 


Idle circuit: The idle circuit is the device that controls how much fuel you
have at idle and it also sends fuel to the progression circuits. Where many
people run into problems is that they don't understand that the IDLE JET IS
THE CIRCUIT THAT THEY DO MOST OF THEIR DRIVING ON. So, this jet is critical
in engine flexibility and economy. The idle jet affects engine operation up
to about 2500-3000 RPMs! 

Almost every dual carb application I have seen with VW engines use a 55-60
idle jet. Center-mounted carbs need a RICHER (larger) idle jet, since the
carb is so far from the cylinders and the fuel condenses on the way there
(keep your manifold pre-heater). 


Main Jets: The next jet to dial in is your main jet. As a starting point,
choose a main jet size about 4.1 - 4.3 X Venturi Size (mm). Simple!  


According to this, I should be starting with 4.3 x 26 = 111.8 mains, but the
carb comes stock with 127.5.


Has any one else built an engine similar to mine? If so, what jetting was
used? 140 mains? If I up the mains like Eugene says I should, what else
should I change? Is the idle jet and pilot jet the same thing? If so, my
pilot jet is 55 - should I up it before the mains or at the same time as the
mains? Is jetting for a bus different than a beetle? I don't want to over
jet but I don't want to under jet either. Any direction would be helpful.
I'm more or less at sea level.


Thanks 


Rob


Abbotsford, BC
