From: "Lazy Lightening" <lazy_lightening(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 26 Sep 2004 15:23:47 +0000
Subject: Click & Clack...two guys, one brain

In my Sunday paper, Frick & Frack were busy convincing a woman that if her 
daughter bought a 1970 VW bus, she would become a frostbitten quadriplegic 
in the "deadly vehicle" (are these guys Nader prodigies or what?).

Anyway, I tried to find their latest advice online, but only found similar 
absurd comments from these two "gurus".  The following is an example and 
I've got to say that it kinda ticks me off that two supposed experts can be 
so narrow minded.

Oh yeah, they also told the woman that her daughter should buy a Honda 
Element "today's modern, safer version of the VW bus".  Gimme a break!

Dear Tom and Ray,

I was thinking of buying a Volkswagen Microbus. I know that means constant 
repairs, etc. But I currently drive a 1987 Jetta with 166,000 miles that 
also needs constant repairs. So I figured if I'm going to be repairing my 
car all the time, I might as well have a cooler car. I'm graduating from 
high school soon, and I plan on going to college next year. What do you 
think? -- Nick

Ray: Well, if you're looking for a cooler car, you can't beat an old VW 
Microbus. Their heaters were so inefficient that you're guaranteed to be 
cool all winter -- assuming you don't freeze to death.

Tom: Of course, the major downside of the VW Microbus is not its lack of a 
good heater. It's not its lack of power, either. Nor is it the way it blows 
around in the wind like a billboard on top of Mount Washington. No. The big 
problem with Microbuses is safety.

Ray: Before you buy one, try this experiment, Nick. Take a folding chair out 
to your driveway and have a friend drive his car into your knees. That'll 
give you an idea of what it will feel like to have a front-end crash in an 
old VW bus. The engine's in the back. And you sit so far up front in that 
vehicle that your knees basically ARE the front bumpers. Not literally, but 
pretty close.

Tom: So if you really want a VW bus, at least get a Eurovan, the 
later-generation, front-engine, front-wheel drive VW buses. Those are 
considerably safer.

Ray: Or, if you want something old and funky, consider going for something 
big -- like a '70s Chevy Suburban or my brother's late '74 Chevy Caprice 
Classic Convertible. Something like that will be every bit as lousy, smelly 
and unreliable as a VW bus, but at least there will be a lot of metal around 
you if you should hit something. Good luck, Nick.

_________________________________________________________________
Express yourself instantly with MSN Messenger! Download today - it's FREE! 
hthttp://messenger.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200471ave/direct/01/
