From: "Michael Knight" <vwdormer(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 17 Jul 2004 12:47:08 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine Swap Info?

>>  Some of us would simply prefer a quieter, more powerful, more efficient 
>>(pick any three) bus.

I have a friend that is woking on a diesel injected, flat four, aircooled 
engine for the military. He has already perfected the same engine in a 2 
cylinder motor cycle engine and is producing them for military purposes. I 
will be first in line to install one in a bus possibly the first of next 
year. That is really all I can say about it. It is not government classified 
but patten pending, so I have to leave it at that.

>From: Mark Hineline


There is nothing wrong with any of these. But it should be done in a manner 
that is pleasing to a bus and not easily detected from the natural stature 
of the bus. Very similar to my opinion about silcone implants from... oo to 
OO. Too much is exactly that, too much.

>But David, is the resulting vehicle a "bus"? That's the question. Seems to 
>me it's a counterfeit.

There are bad counterfeits. Then there are spectacular improvements.

>When you buy a bus, you sign on to the limitations of the thing. Swapping 
>in a watercooled engine isn't like installing a Pertronix. It's a decision 
>(IMHO) that you don't really want a bus.

Isn't the Pertronix and improvement to the limitations. The engine swap is 
meant as an inprovement no matter what ill planning and individual may 
conjur up.

>Anyway, I am getting worried now that two of the most senior and sensible 
>members of the list -- not to mention the fact that they are list admins -- 
>think that these conversions are a good idea.

This goes back to my original statement and feelings on this topic. This is 
a task that should be undertaken by those who really know buses. Precision, 
implimentation of an engineered improvement buy those who know the feelings 
and character of buses. I guess what I mean is that you should really know 
the bus inside and out as it is and for what it is, before you go about 
"defacing" it. This being said one who knows will more likely keep the bus 
as a bus but with improvements in perfomance and efficiency without 
noticible changes in appearence(body-mods). It should not be a rash and 
hasty decision to just start cutting away and making it work. It should be 
an improvent that is still asthetically pleasing and doesn't take away from 
the bus. I am not saying that I agree or disagree with swapping in and 
engine that is "foreign" to the bus but I stand behind this motto....

ANYTHING WORTH BEING DONE IS WORTH BEING DONE RIGHT.

Good luck to you all and enjoy your buses that is why we have them.

Michael Knight
'77 Westy Deluxe AT, "el Verde" (non-Frankenbusen)

_________________________________________________________________
FREE pop-up blocking with the new MSN Toolbar  get it now! 
http://toolbar.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200415ave/direct/01/
