Date: Mon, 4 Apr 2005 16:49:15 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Alejandro Vieira <bsnman(-at-)adelphia.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] fire wall removal trick

Oooo.  I have experience here.
   
You already were told about the 2 bottom screws
holding the firewall in place.  They are hidden from
view and only accessible from under the bus, looking
straight upwards.  All the other screws are visible
from the engine compartment.  But removing the tank
with the engine still in?  Gee, I don't envy you. 
That's going to be a PITA.  Good luck.
   
The Firewall does not come out from the bottom EASILY.
 It has a little downward pointing "U" channel along
some of the bottom edge.  Break the top free, and
rotate the top back.  The periphery of the inside
firewall edge has a quarter-inch strip of stickly
white foam.  Your firewall won't budge because of 2
remaining screws, rust, tight fit, and the sticky
white foam.
  
The "S" hose should be dry.  The smell of gasoline is
a natural consequence of what you have opened.  But
not a juicy smell of fresh flowing gasoline, no.  But
consistency of Oil?  Thats not right.  Something wrong
there.  The only "wetness" should be gasoline, and it
should not appear until downstream of the "S" hose,
when you get inside of the 4-holed distribution box at
the very earliest.  And then, gasoline only from the
cold-start injector.  The "S" hose should be dry as a
bone.  Am I not correct T2 listees?
   
There ARE 8 screws.  Six are visible from the engine
compartment.  The other 2 are visible only from
beneath, looking straight upwards.
    
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
78 VW ASI/Riviera "M.P." (Money-Pit)
