From: "David Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Nov 2001 20:44:08 -0600
Subject: Oily To Rise

Paul wrote:
>The trick is to understand the 2 different numbers in the designation of a
multi-grade oil.  The first >number is the viscosity at ambient
temperatures.  In the case of 10w40 the oil has the properties of >a 10
weight oil at ambient.  The second number designates the qualities of the
oil at 100 degrees >C.  So, at 100 degrees C, the 10w40 oil has the same
viscosity a 40 weight oil would at 100 >degrees C.  It's not that the 10w40
thickens with temperature, it's that it doesn't thin as fast as a >straight
weight oil does.  That is accomplished by the additives in the oil.   So,
the multi-grade oil >gives us the best of both worlds.  We can have thin for
starting and at operating temperature still >have the lubrication the same
as a heavier grade.  Of course none of this applies for straight grade
>oils.   Hope this helps.

Wouldn't that violate the thermodynamics of the oil? Oil viscosity decreases
as temperature increases, so it can't jump from a 10W to a 40W under
operating conditions.

Forgive me if I'm wrong (it has happened!) but after researching oil
properties,I understand that the first number does give the base weight of
the oil, but the second number indicates how much the base oil will thin at
100C. In other words, a 10 weight oil is 10 weight at ambient, but will only
thin as much as a 40 weight would at 100C. Not quite the same thing as being
a 40W at 100C. And that doesn't answer the question. If I need a 20W base
weight oil in the summer, don't I need it in the winter, too?

With respect to Bob, is the 5W oil performing well for you? When installing
the new engine, all my research indicated that heavier oils were absolutely
needed in the air cooled VW. For dyno oils it was straight 40W summer and
straight 30W in the winter. I believe that's what the owner's manual
recommends, too. Opinions were mixed for the synthetic oils, but 10W40 was
considered to be the minimum in moderate climates and 20W50 was preferred.

I guess my question relates to the high-temp functioning of the oil. The
engine spends a lot more time at operating temp than warming up and those
temps aren't that much different winter or summer. So if a 20W (40W) is
reccommended for summer, shouldn't it also be appropriate for winter?

Just thinking out loud. I'll stop now.

Dave

