Date: Fri, 17 Jan 2003 18:21:01 -0500
From: "R. E. Haufler" <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>
To: Jon DeVos <hippygarden(-at-)comcast.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] My clutch is growling!  RRRRRR.....

>...a growling noise which stops when I  let up on the pedal.

I have similar symptoms when cold.

I wonder about the suggestion that it could be the pilot bearing.  Now, I
have not replaced a clutch yet, so maybe I am wrong, but it seems to me that
the pilot bearing is basically not moving when the clutch is engaged (pedal
out).  The pilot bearing allows the transmission shaft to engage the
flywheel but not spin when the clutch is disengaged.  When the clutch is
engaged (pedal out) all are one, the bearing is spinning, but the inside and
outside are spinning together.  Thus, noise when the clutch is engaged
(pedal out) when in neutral is something else, another bearing in the
transmission.

I had a sound that I was (am, for some reason it has gone away) certain it
was from my throwout bearing.  It would whine when the clutch was disengaged
(pedal in).  The Bentley manual, chapter 15, page 50, suggests drilling a
hole in the transmission case to lubricate the throwout bearing if it makes
noise (this seems like a bad idea to me).  For some reason, this noise has
departed.

On page 207 of the idiot book, Muir says that "if there is a high pitched
squealing when you let the clutch out in 1st, the flywheel gland nut is
shot. "  This is the pilot bearing in a T1.  I am not sure if this applies
to a T IV.  I have read here that the main evidence of pilot bearing failure
is that it will lock up and the clutch will not disengage the engine from
the transmission.

REH
http://homepage.mac.com/rehaufler/Bussie/
