Date: Sat, 24 Apr 2004 07:09:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: phil cain <bearsvw2000(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com, type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] A Weber carb question...

Well John, There's not very much to a Webber Carb,
short of jetting it to your engine and I don't have
the proper things to do that now,(got out of racing)we
had a kit that gave you humidity, pressure and temp
and we jetted the carb for that time of the day, as
you can see everyday cars do not have their carbs set
up before driving, they just have a average setting
put in at the factory and you can change it if you
want to and have the time.. Now down to the setting of
the Holley carb, two barrel progressive, there is only
two settings on them and they are very fool proof.
Make sure that everything is good on the basic engine,
spark plugs & wires, points set correcly, timing set
mixture screw out(from snug in)4-4.5 turns(screws into
the body of the carb on the base) then warm the engine
up, set the Idle to 8-850 RPM with the set screw on
the throdle arm, then with a tack on the engine turn
the mixture screw in untill the RPM drops 50 then turn
it back out 1/2 turn, reset the Idle RPM to 8-850,
unless you are havine problems with your choke you are
done. Setting the choke and fast Idle is a whole other
problem, If you need to know how to do that let me
know. As for the basic carb there is the two
adjustments that I told you. Mixture and Idle the
others are internal parts changes.. Phil, long live
fuel injection(so much easer)  
