Date: Mon, 6 Jun 2011 13:48:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Christophe Guilbert <cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 195R14 tires instead of 185R14 on a 1983 camper !!!

Chris,
 
First I presume an error the time you said R15.
 
A few idiots are going to chime in about the woes, and this, and that, and
braking, and a lot of BS.
 
This is interesting as as I was going to post about tires, I have at hand 4
sets.  I got in a buying frenzy when I realized that non existed in AK new
anywhere I could find.  Anyway I have two sets of 185R14, both Nokian, CQ and
C2 snows, both D loader 8PR, both near new which I just gave $125 for this
past week (all 8 tires, yay) with '05 and '00 date codes respectively, a set
of 195/75R14 Sears Trailhandlers "A/T" C loader 6PR which were on the '77, and
a set of no name LT195/75R14 that are 94Q load (better than most passenger in
this side) with inflation to 50 psi but are stricly not C or D or technically
"reinforced" bought them before the Nokians showed up.  I oddly among VW van
drivers would not be afraid to run these, and will likely toss them on the
single cab, but probably wouldn't put em on a Vanagon camper.
 
Real measurements on these all are the interesting bit, I note none are 195R14
like you are looking at, but get the reality here.  I was looking to replace
the Trailhandlers on the '77 as although they have only 15k or so on them,
they are '94, '95 date codes.  I bought them new, bought a lot of them in the
90's to put on T2, T25, T3 VW vans.  Good solid local available tires then,
just went to Sears in the day, by todays standards not much of an "AT", would
rate more as a realistic all season.  I liked them as much as XZX's, much more
than Agillis which I hate personally, or any Conti product, or even the better
Yoko 372? the one now NLA which had tread, or any Hankook or other Asian
tire.
 
Anyway this is the bit, all on matching steel Bus/Vanagon rims.
 
All 8 Nokian's are very uniform even though 2 different tires, and have a VERY
wide contact patch with VERY square profile.  They measure 185mm wide section,
the actual contact area is 170mm wide.
 
The Trailhanderlers measure 190mm wide section but the contact patch of this
"AT" tire is only a measely 150mm wide.
 
The no-namers measure a solid 195mm wide section, their contact is 165mm
wide.
 
So the "narrowest" tires the Nokian's have the widest contact, by FAR.
 
Side by side height the no-namers are about 3-4mm taller than either Nokian
(which they shouldn't be technically as these are 195/75 not your 195 (80)
R14), all all 3 sets of those tires are near new, less than 5-10k certainly. 
The Nokian's are then in turn are about 3-4mm taller than the Trailhandlers,
however admittedly the wear is in that order as well, though even the
Trailhandlers have at least 2/3 tread.
 
So your 195R14 although technically "wider" and "taller" than a 185R14 could
end up anywhere in the world.  Of the same model (and perhaps maker) tire, I'd
imagine they would be slightly taller, slightly wider but I wouldn't count
anything between brands or even lines within a brand.  I often ran 205/70R14
studs on the rear with 185R14 on the front in WV, never affected my handling,
braking, or anything else, but I can drive.  Only vanagon I ever  wrecked
(rolled) had 4 perfectly matched XZX's on it, but I had stupidly not put my
chains on, and lifted the throttle on shear black ice (hey I was 16.) 
Personally I'd put the 195R14 on the back if only going for 2 if indeed they
are wider and taller mostly for steering effort, but that is just me.  I
wouldn't sweat much else, and I'd look for a deal (craigslist yay) cause
things drop out of thin air.  Got to decide what to do spare wise of course as
well.
 
John
 
--- On Mon, 6/6/11, Christophe Guilbert <cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu> wrote:

I urgently need to replace the front tire (was lucky to be alive from Yosemite
with such a tire actually!) Somebody proposed me two pairs of 195R14.   would
it be OK to mix 195R15 tires in the front and my "great new" agilis 81 in the
back ? What about the 4 tires being 195R14, downside upside ?
