From: "Michael Knight" <vwdormer(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 12 Jul 2004 12:07:09 -0400
Subject: Weekend Update engine is in

Well this weekend was a blast as far as getting things done.

Friday night I pulled an "all nighter" starting at about 10:30PM. Kids in 
bed, dinner in belly, several beers in system, gas tank had finished drying, 
all parts on hand, cool breeze blowing. I reinstalled the tank new breather 
lines. New filler neck , new filler tube to tank hose, firewall, etc. Easy 
peasy no real hitches, well maybe the filler neck. I think I installed it a 
few times more than I should have, but I am really good at it now. Cleaned 
up the shop sorted parts, tools, etc. Clean shop is a happy shop. Did some 
miscellaneous dejunking of the basement intended for the Yard/Junk Sale Sat. 
morning. I looked at the clock it was about 5:30 AM. No sense in going to 
bed now. Made some breakfast and preparred for the day.

12:02 PM Saturday.  Rob Henley calls to say he was on the way to help with 
the engine install. Awesome I was starting to catch my second wind by that 
time. 96 degrees and about 90 some odd percent humidity. Phew...time for 
more beer and some Ibuprofen for the old back. 1:30PM. Rob materializes with 
Karen. Minor rest in a lounge chair has charged the brain and body for 
another round, still no sleep. We split Rob's Case that he has been tearing 
down. After that with the aid of Karen, Rob and I put the engine in 
relatively smoothly in about 10 Min. I guess.

4ish - 5ish PM Sat. Rob and Karen pack up and hit the road. I eat a small 
dinner, and followed by more beer. Approaching storms and a wild hair don't 
let me call it day. I tell my wife (Fran) that I am going down to retape the 
busted jalousie window and replace the sheet plastic hanging over the 
missing window on the bus. She asked, "When are you going to replace those?" 
I asked if she had 20 min. and willingness to push. Let's do it....

We pulled the busted Jalousie and replace with a good one. Added a new seal 
to the standby glass for the opening that has been empty for a while. 25 
min. later I was sitting at the basement/garage door in the lounge chair, 
beer in one hand, freshly twisted one burning in the other, admiration of 
accomplishment in my eyes and it was just starting to rain.

Now to make her run before I leave this house....

I snapped a pic of the fresh install


http://hpphoto.com/servlet/com.hp.HPGuestLogin?username=vwbusgarden&password=27453378
Michael Knight

I will have more of the previous steps later. I can't wait to post the pics 
of the first test drive...

Michael Knight
'77 Westy Deluxe, "el Verde"

_________________________________________________________________
MSN Toolbar provides one-click access to Hotmail from any Web page  FREE 
download! http://toolbar.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200413ave/direct/01/
