Date: Sat, 4 Dec 2004 20:59:27 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] WR1

On Sat, 04 Dec 2004 18:15:34 -0800 Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com> wrote:

> If I can buy one for $1.99 the people putting the kit together are making
> pure profit I guess.

That would be Bosch making a good part of that profit. The WR1 Kit is a
Bosch part introduced to help solve "hot start" problems in VW, Porsche,
and Saab vehicles. 

BUT, they intended for the REST of the system to be checked out by a
qualified auto electrician and certified good before it was installed.

http://www.autohausaz.com/porsche-auto-parts/porsche-electrical-systems.html

*************************************************************************************
About 3/4 of the way down is this note (it's repeated further down under
"Saab #2" and "Volkswagen #3").
*************************************************************************************

Porsche #3: Many early model Volkswagen, Porsche and Saab cars (Bosch reman
starters SR15X, SR17X, SR68X, SR78X) suffer from a condition where the
starter motor cranks slowly or not at all. On these vehicles a minimum of 7
volts is required to activate the starter solenoid. 

If the car's starting and charging system has been inspected for proper
battery voltage, cable connections/conditions, and placement of starter
heat shields and this problem still persists, it may be necessary to
install a starter relay kit, in order to ensure that the proper voltage
gets to the starter. Bosch now offers a complete relay kit (WR1), which
consists of a wiring harness, a relay, a 15 amp fuse and a complete set of
installation instructions.

************************************************************************************
It appears to have also been mandated for later Rabbit/Golf/Jetta models
and was given a *VW* part number (the installation note here sure makes it
sound like the WR1 kit).
************************************************************************************

Volkswagen #4: Seems VWs are just prone to hot-soak, won't-start
conditions. Volkswagen has recognized that Rabbits, Golfs and Jettas from
1985 on (Bosch reman starters SR33X, SR34X and SR82X) also suffer from a
hot-soak condition where battery voltage to the #50 terminal of the starter
drops to less than 10 volts under high underhood temperatures, resulting in
a car that won't crank. 

If a complete check of the car's charging and starting system reveals no
other problems, Volkswagen suggests a VW retrofit starter relay (141 951
253B) be installed in line between the T1 connector of the right engine
harness and the T1 connector of the starter cable harness, which leads to
the terminal #50 of the starter solenoid. Other required components and
installation directions are available through your VW dealer.


Gerald
