From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "'Type 2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 5 Dec 2004 01:28:45 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] WR1

My long-winded $0.02...

Regarding the functionality of the WR1 kit...

Just because something is stock does not make it better. There are some
cases where VW just screwed up.  It's absurd to route current from the
battery all the way to the ignition switch, and then all the way back to a
starter which is three feet from the battery to begin with.  No wonder the
starter soleniod is sensitive to current drop!  Yes, you could clean all the
connections, etc. and probably make the intrinsically flawed original design
work again. But it may be more work than simply doing the relay fix. If
using a relay to run the current "directly" solves the problem just as well,
with less work, what is the downside?

I had a similar discussion with Steve Dolan at today's Mid-Atlantic Holiday
Bus Fest in Maryland, which Tom Forhan graciously hosted once again. (Sadly,
not a single bus was in attendance; all Vanagons. Such is the effect of road
salt on the survival of east coast busses, I'm afraid.)  I argued that the
type 4 engine had an intrinsic valve seat design flaw causing a tendancy to
drop a seat at the drop of a hat as soon as the engine overheats. (A flaw
which is largely solved by AVP's updated valve seat design, which is why I
will only sell their heads and engines.) Steve, who has a airline cockpit's
worth of instrumentation in his aircooled Vanagon to monitor temperature and
engine condition (and nicely done, I might add!), argued that you'll never
drop a seat if you don't overheat your bus. He's absolutely right. But this
doesn't change the fact that the design is intrinsically flawed to begin
with, simply because it's so sensitive to overheating in the first place. If
the seats didn't drop as soon as the engine got a bit hot, maybe the array
of instrumentation wouldn't be necessary!  The WR1 issue is a similar one.
Yes, you can overcome the design flaw by cleaning all the connections, etc.
But to me, THAT - not installing a WR1 kit - is the "rig" job. Putting in a
relay, by comparison, is "fixing it right" - solving the problem at its
source by eliminating the causative design flaw altogether.

Incidentally, the WR1 is not Bosch's idea. It dates back to the venerable
John Muir ("How To Keep Your Volkswagen Alive"), who suggested using a Ford
solenoid for the same purpose. A relay is more efficient (using a Ford
solenoid for this purpose is kind of like using a steamroller to kill a
fly), but it's the same 'fix'. Bosch was simply savvy enough to market a kit
designed just for that purpose.

As for the effectiveness of the relay "solution," it's not guaranteed to
solve your problem but the odds are good. The typical symptom of a "hot
start" problem is that when the bus has been running a while, and then you
shut it off and restart it, you get a click when you turn the key and that's
it. If this is your problem, the odds are good that the WR1 kit will solve
the problem. In my experience it solves the problem maybe 8 out of 10 times.
The 10th time it turns out you need a starter anyway. So you wasted $20 and
a bit of time. But even then you really didn't waste your $20, because you
preemptively solved another problem that is fairly likely to crop up sooner
or later anyway. Considering the benefits vs. risks it's worth playing the
odds.


As for the pricing of the Bosch WR1 kit...

As a Bosch distributor I can assure you that it's Bosch making the killing
here, not me. :-(   Mike Jackson (Casting Fool) commented that the WR1 kit
wholesales for about  $10-12.  Actually, as recently as three years ago it
wholesaled for just $6 and I sold it for $7.95.  Just recently Bosch
wholesale jumped to nearly $14. (So I make $5, which I'm sure you'd agree is
a reasonable markup.) Is it worth $14 at wholesale. Hell no. I'd be shocked
if the raw parts cost Bosch more than $5. Part of the explanation is
probably that Bosch is experiencing a slowdown in sales as more busses go
off the road, and is making it up by charging a larger markup on each kit.
The fall of the dollar also has a lot to do with it. Everything imported is
skyrocketing in price because the dollar is dropping to new lows every day.
Most indications are that this will only get worse over the near future. If
you need any imported parts (and most VW parts are, of course, imported), I
_strongly_ advise you to stock up now, because huge price increases,
industry wide, are almost a certainty. This is not a come-on but an honest
assessment of the current market. Everything I'm reordering is costing me
10-25% more because of the dollar's fall, and every other importer's seeing
the same thing. Prices on many parts are going to skyrocket.

So, could you buy the raw parts yourself and save about $10? Certainly. If
you have the time and inclination, go for it.  Personally, if I were an
individual bus owner who needed just one kit, I'd probably just pony up the
$19 because my time/hassle in piecing together a kit would be worth more
than the money it saved me.  From the standpoint of a Bus parts supplier,
however (who might buy 100 of them, not 1),  I must admit that the new
pricing on the WR1 kit has caused me to put "piece together my own WR1 kit"
on my list of things to do, because I'm sure I could sell it for $10 or less
if I assembled it myself. But to be frank it isn't at the top of that list.
Even at the absurdly higher price it's still an under-$20 part, so it won't
break the average bus owner's budget. I'm more worried about finding bus
owners a 30% or 40% savings on a $200 part than on a $20 part. It takes the
same amount of my time to search for a bargain on a $20 part as on a $200
part, so I'd rather spend it where it has the most impact/. The guy who
needs the $200 part is in more need of the price break if I can find it.
Meanwhile, if the Bugpack kit that Richard mentioned is good quality (and I
don't sell Bugpack so I have no idea) and is a few bucks cheaper, by all
means buy it. Or make your own. On the other hand, even at $19 the Bosch
still has some advantages: It's a very safe bet quality wise, it comes with
instructions, and is easily obtained.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
