Date: Fri, 22 Aug 2003 21:36:37 -0700 (PDT)
From: phil cain <bearsvw2000(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Vanagon list
Subject: Bus Depot's Service, long complaint

Well I just got a good serving of poor to bad service
from Ron's business, My engine overhaul is in
progress, heads in the machine shop, ordered a few
parts from Bus Depot, Order came in nicely, took valve
guides to the machine shop to have installed, guides
were ordered as standard, when measured they were
over-sized. All I am getting is double talk about
checking everything again just to make sure that
everything that I have already checked is right.
everything will be alright,I'm going to send it back
for a refund and order from someone else that can do
or ship what I ask for. Thanks Ron for setting me
straight on how to keep a business running, it's a
good thing that this is not a customers car, just a
spare engine for my bus. This was my first try with
Bus Depot and most likely my last unless I can be
convinced otherwise. thanks for letting me blow off
some steam. Phil
