Date: Sat, 23 Aug 2003 07:01:28 -0700 (PDT)
From: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Alice ( I do remember Alice)

This is just a note of encouragement.
  There lives a bug up the street from me. It is on
it's
3rd boy (3 brothers sans participating father). Every
now and then the brother who is in possession of the
bug will stop and ask for help. The upright isnt what
I
am most familure with but it is a aircooled just like
my type4 so I dig in.
  This last visit (2 days ago) the bug made it into my
driveway only because it is down hill from their
house.
  We (the youngest brother, myself & my friend Ric)
proceded to begin at the begining. Useing the Bently
along
with Muir we ignored the dire running condition of the
bug
and just went through the basic tune up from start to
finish. At that point it was actually running. Then we
went at the vacuum lines... cleaned out the oil bath
air filter (it's a 66) and replaced the fuel line
filter
which looked like someone had used it to filter mud
for gold.. Never seen anything quit like it. :-O
  The whole point here is that the bug runs better
than
it has since he started driving it (his words) and
this
was accomplished by just being patient and taking one 
step at a time and getting all the items right that
Muir
writes about... I think David was right on... sit
down,
be patient, and just work at the basics. Try not to
look
at the whole job just the task at hand. Many times
while
you are working on a basic tune up you will find other
smaller problems.
   So now my "pep talk" is done. If we can bring this
bug back to life I am sure you can do the same with
your
bus...

 Good luck,  Dan



=====
~Dan's DAS BUS
http://www.geocities.com/vw_bus_74/index.html
~Wet Westies
http://wetwesties.type2.com/
~The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected.~
