Date: Sun, 19 Oct 2008 21:28:17 -0400
From: Mike Benthin -MUTS oboe support <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
Subject: "Moldy Twinkie" broke down on way home from Blue Rocks Campout

The good news is we had daughter's bus along and it took us home.  Left 
BlueRocks Campground OK and stopped in Lenhartsville for dinner (about 
13 mi west of Allentown).  Cranked, but no start.  After being hot it 
had taken more cranks than usual since going to Assateague/Busch 
Gardens.  Spark OK, fuel pump whirrs, double relay clicks upon ignition 
start.  Put the voltmeter contacts in an injector and no voltage of any 
kind  while cranking. Checked for voltage at the center plug of the 
resistor pak with ignition on and NaDa. Switched double relay, no help. 
Pulled the MPC and checked #1 contact for voltage while cranking and 
NaDa. Hmm- no trigger pulses? Changed Coil and checked timing and it 
seems OK. Was too dark to go further and Sue has a report due Monday so 
we left it for Monday when Nyssa and I can come by.  Battery was a bit 
run down and I'll bring one. Likely will call Goods Sam for a tow to a 
safer spot if nothing works.  Anyone suggest a repair place near 
Allentown that will work on FI VW, and what else to do (like is there a 
way to  bypass the triggering if it not getting to #1?)  Guess I may 
have to root out a spare wiring harness.  Good Sam guarantees a tow to a 
place that can actually fix it iven if hundreds of miles, and all I know 
is Bus Depot (for parts at least) or home, 80 mi away!
