Date: Wed, 21 Apr 2004 11:30:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: New dizzy and pertronix (thanx Aircooled.net)

Just installed my new dizzy from Aircooled.net. 
Very nice.  I cannot believe this is a rebuild. 
Looks new.  Very tight.  Nice and shiny too.  But
I couldn't find a clear dizzy cap for it and it
doesn't come in super sano chrome.  How will I
ever make the cover of VW T&A magazine without a
clear cap and some chrome???  :)

Before isntalling it, I also installed the
pertronix.  Folks, if you are thinking about
adding a pertronix, do it.  Do it now.  I kick
myself for ever buying a replacement set of
points and condensor, other than my spare.  John
sent instructions by email that supplemented what
the manufacturer sent in the box.  It was
literally easier than adjusting the points once. 
Remove the old unit, screw in the new one and
connect the two wires.  It's that easy.  I'm not
that mechanical (witness my posts the last few
days) and I did it in five minutes or so during a
commercial break on my wifey's fave bube tube
show.  Way easier than trying to set the points,
even once.  

I did keep a rebuilt stock single vac dual
advance dizzy with bosch innards as a backup,
just in case.  I also got a Mallory CDI from
John, but that will have to wait for now.  Still
running a little rich, the mechanic did what he
could to lessen the effects of the now departed
0-0-Nein, but I probably won't get around to that
until later also.  

The 0-0-Nein dizzy is long gone!!! Soon to be
thrown in the trash heap!  No more stumbling off
idle while I wait for the dizzy to catch up.  No
jerking and stumbling when I mash the gas until
the dizzy winds up to a higher rpm. No more
slipping the clutch trying to keep the rpm up or
driving through town in 1st gear so I can wind
the dizzy.  Just smooth fweeeeeeeEEEEEEEEEM as I
hit the gas.  Can't wait to see how my MPG
improves.  

Thanks John!
