From: "Michael Knight" <vwdormer(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vwsnoopy(-at-)knology.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 17 May 2004 11:36:41 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] 78 FI to *&^% Weber progressive

Snoopy,

Man keep on truckin. I feel your pain.


>For those keeping track.  I still want to put FI in my 73, but until I find
>the rest of the FI system, it will have to wait.

I know your woes all to well. I am doing the same thing.

>So, in the mean time I have a 78 FI motor that I just removed most of the 
>FI
>parts from.
>
>I have 3 questions, all from the perspective of looking from the engine
>hatch..
>1) on the left side of engine, just to the left and behind the coil.  There
>was a hose coming off a metal tube.  On my original 73 engine this was
>siliconed off.  Does it need to be?  As of now I just removed the hose.

Not sure on this one do you have a pic? I will look when I get home this 
evening. I think it might be related to the Carcoal Canister.


>2)  On the 3/4 head, on the 4 side, there is a switched wire coming off the
>head.  What should I do with it?

Plug it in.LOL. This plugs into the small harness from the Blower Fan on 
mine not sure if it is correct.

>3)  On the right side of engine where engine mounts to tranny, there is a
>switch that appears to go into the bell housing.  What is this for? And 
>what
>should I do about it?

It should have a cable on the end of it about 18" long, off white. IIRC this 
is a test circuit of some type Richard Atwell explained it to me once. I 
think he might be one of the only people I know of that actually has the 
Gizmo to even use this little device. I think he said that it replaces using 
a Dwell/Tach and Timing light. Would be cool to use but it is not needed. I 
have been told by others that it is not needed at all.

Well my bus came with the Weberization Option installed by PO. FI stuff 
gone, missing, nonexistant. Wait there was the sticker on the engine lid 
said something about FI. Anyway I traded the Weber to John Baker off of the 
List for a complete '78 Setup. Well one thing after another now I have to 
move very soon. Bus in the air on Jackstands. Still trying to piece 
everything together. Landlord comes over points to the lease and says no 
inoperable vehicles permitted at my house. I points to my Ass and tell him 
to kiss it. Bummed I called a friend who had another Weber setup. I could 
slap this on there for now. Cool I got the runners on mannifold in place. 
WTF? I just happened to look at the Cooling tin and flaps. No bar for the 
cooling flaps = no flaps Look underneath no thermostat. Needless to say 
Lastnight I popped my cherry on pulling a 2.0L from an Automatic bus and the 
Fuel Injection is the only thin going back on there, I didn't even finish 
installing the Weber. I will be taking some pics and I will post them 
somewhere for all to see. I will send you a link.

Later,

Michael Knight
'77 Westy Deluxe AT, "el Verde"

_________________________________________________________________
Is your PC infected? Get a FREE online computer virus scan from McAfee. 
Security. http://clinic.mcafee.com/clinic/ibuy/campaign.asp?cid=3963
