From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 15 Nov 2003 12:50:18 -0500
Subject: When Temp Sensor II Goes Bad

In my quest to discover what happened to my perfectly running bus that I
shut off 4 weeks ago I have been through a number of tests and have
narrowed things down to either contaminated fuel or a bad temp sensor II. I
have confirmed that all of my grounds are good, no vacuum leaks or broken
hoses, ignition system up to par, valve clearance and compression good,
double relay functioning properly, cold start and aux air regulator check
out, and temp sensor I passed the tests. I do not have a fuel pressure
gauge to check regulator and pressure but do not suspect them.

Again to refresh, bus ran perfectly 4 weekends ago.Went camping drove home
never missed a beat. Parked the bus shut down the engine and unpacked. 3
weeks elapsed during which we had some very heavy rain and cooler weather.
I went ot start the bus on Monday and it fired right up but would not idle
or run at any constant rpm either high or low. Only way to keep it going
was constant pumping of the pedal. Today I confirmed all of the above
tests. I believe that temp sensor II resistance is within 200 ohms of being
okay. Dont really care for my digital meter. It is about 50F outside and I
get what I believe to be a reading of 2200-2300 ohms on the sensor test. I
have removed the sensor and tested it again and got the same reading to see
if it was not seated well. I brought the AFM inside the house to get it
above 68F to test temp sensor I per bentley and got 2500 ohms so it is
good. I do not have a tremendous deal of faith in my gas cap though because
I lost the original and have an el-cheapo repro from FLAPS on there. With
all of the rain we go it could have leaked water into the fuel system. Have
to get Jerry can to drain tank and need to replace fuel filter anyway, its
almost 2 years old. Have close to 1/4 tank of petrol.

So I suspect that I have either water in fuel or a neighbor's kid has
played a prank on poor Possum, or Temp Sensor II is in fact shot. If the
sensor went bad sometime on the camping trip drive 4 weeks ago would it
cause the bus to run poorly if the engine was already at operating temps,
or would it only be a problem when the engine was cold? I have not tried
keeping the engine alive by pumping the gas long enough to get things fully
warmed up as it is a royal PITA to do so.

Sorry for the long post, I am leaning towards the contaminated fuel more so
than a mechanical failure due to how well the bus ran when last started and
that all the other systems appear to be in good working order.

Thanks for any input.

Ted REshetiloff
78' Westy Possum (2.0 FI)



***********************************************************************************************************************

The information in this e-mail and any attachments may be privileged and
confidential.  If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the
sender and do not disclose the contents or make copies.  When addressed to
our clients, any opinions or advice contained in this email or any
attachments are subject to the terms and conditions of the Cambridge
Associates client engagement agreement.

***********************************************************************************************************************
