Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2001 12:12:50 -0700
From: Joe White <ehswhite(-at-)gorge.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: shift rod bushings - front & rear

--------------AC7E91EDB745FBDBC66B4445
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii; x-mac-type="54455854"; x-mac-creator="4D4F5353"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Hi,

Am new to the list  and also new to T2's (a little
experience with T1's) - Just acquired a '77  (deluxe?) with
the sunroof and falling in love with it.!!... why did it
take me so long to get one ??... luv the beetles and ghias,
but really starting to get into the bus...

Symptom I'm experiencing with new love, no laughs,
please.....a very, very sloppy shifter and a little tough
'finding" 2nd from 3rd. Otherwise, very healthy tranny, and
clutch adjustment.  Pretty much the same symptoms as my T1s
when the shifter bushings needed replacement.

anyway...... I have checked the Archive and found a couple
of references to replacing bushings as well as shift rod
coupler at the tranny end, but didnt find a clear answer to
this question...

Q #1: In order to replace the "rear" bushing and/or shift
coupler, does one have to remove the tranny?  Bently says
that in order to remove the rear half of the shift rod, must
remove tranny, so, does that mean that the rod has to come
all the way out out to replace the rear bushing? That isnt
clear in the books. I really dont want to have to drop the
tranny! I've got that bushing in hand, a new one, 211-185B,
found in the dusty back room of a parts seller.....

Replacement of the front bushing seems pretty straight
forward from instructions in Bentley and Haynes, I'm just
having a hard time finding a 211-182 in stock  anywhere -
two weeks wait from Bus Depot, even longer at the favorite
"downtown" store and none in the "dusty back room".

I confess, I havent "opened" her up yet, so answers may come
when that happens, but wanted to be as prepared as possible,
with other's past experience and parts in hand, to minimize
down-time.

Q #2: Also, Bentley and Haynes drawings show a "Guide
Sleeve" at the front of the front shift rod, but no parts
listed in Bus Depot and parts house looked at me with a real
blank look when I asked them. Does that wear and are
replacements available???

Couldn't find anything in "Idiot's Guide" on either of these
questions, unless I didnt look in the right place.

As long as was going to have it apart, I was going to put in
a new shift coupler to put in, too. Make sense?

Any help would be appreciated.... espeically major and minor
pit-falls, if any,  and best "order of operations" for the
project.

Thanks

Joe
77 Station Wagen
72 beetle
71-ex-ghia
64 ghia
(wife says that's enough - anybody else have that problem?
*sigh*)

end-




--------------AC7E91EDB745FBDBC66B4445--

