Date: Sat, 22 Jan 2005 19:47:09 -0800
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Yay! All external lights work now!!!

I finally got around to putting the marker lights on and diagnosing a
turn signal issue (quick blinking).

I ordered new rear marker light bases and all new lenses. I was
surprised to find that the front ones without lights still need bases.
WTF? Well, they mounted well enough without, but there's no seal so
they'll fill up with water when it rains. But at least I'm "legal".

I had been hesitant about the rear ones because of the battery tray
rust that cut throught the rear fender:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/pics/0704/busexterior5.jpg

I do have a repair panel for that from BD, but no welder. I've been
debating on whether to use rivets and adhesive or just wait until
after I move and get some $$ together for a welder. (Unless someone in
SoCal wants to weld it for me?)

Anyway, what I did was use the original hole that's still there for
the bolt, then ran a screw through the top left corner of the base and
into a not-so-rusty portion of the fender. It's not "correct" but it
is legal. So both rear markers light up! Yay!

Also, the fast blink on my right turnsignal was driving me batty.
Turns out the ground wire wasn't making good contact. New connector
and a bit of sandpaper on the ground spade took care of that.

I finally installed the license plate light another list member sent
me. Great. Now when I'm out committing my crimes people can see my
plate. :-^

I have to comment on the tail lights I have. These are the ones I
currently have on my bus:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/pics/taillights04.jpg

Note the lack of a white area for reverse lights. (Which really isn't
an issue, since the (-at-)$#%^ reverse switch is either dead, or the wiring
is shot. Haven't got that far yet.) Also, the bulb mounts suck arse.
They just slop around so every week or so I have to pull the lenses
and adjust the bulbs so they light properly after being vibrated into
different positions. Total crap quality. But they were cheap. My old
housings were disintegrated:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/pics/taillights02.jpg

(shudder)

Anyway, just wanted to share the joy of spending all afternoon in this
wonderful mid 70's weather working on the bus and avoiding my
mother-in-law who was over visiting. ;-)

OH!!! Almost forgot! I redid my passenger side door panel finally.
Added a speaker too! I'll get pics up soon...

--
Don Tuleja
Great White:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
