Date: Sat, 24 Nov 2001 05:38:37 -0800 (PST)
From: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: shifting problems

Derrick,
 Look carefully ai the shift coupler( end of shifter
linkage and right in front of the tranny) Clean it off
so you can see it clearly and have someone try and run
through the gears. BUS NOT RUNNING. It has a rubber
bushing that may be shot or the shaft/cage junction
may be slipping. This will make more sense after you
look at it. Spray it down with 409 and wipe the crud
off it real well so you can see what is going on. The
shaft that goes inot the tranny must be following the
coupler exactly.
  If the coupler is intact then perhaps the adjuster
plate at the base of the shifter (under the rubber
boot) has come loose. this has to be adjusted to spec
or you wont be able to find some of the gears. Get
into this adjustment procedure as a las resort.. it's
kind of a PITA IMHO. Look to the archives and the
manual for this procedure. I would try an explain it
but I have screwed it up myself.(blind leading the
blind)...
  I hope it is one of these 2 problems... prefer it to
be the 1st myselfe. Coupler is around 10 - 15 bucks.

--------------------------
Okay I need some help. I have a 1970 type II bus and I
don't think the transmission is out. I start it right
up I can get it going but its =really hard to shift
the gears. It's like its stuck in 3 rd gear but if 
-------------------------------------------------------
<some content removed to save
bandwidth>---------------
-------------------------------------------------------
What could be the problem here and what would it cost
to fix this problem.

Derrick



=====
E. Z. Loafer

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! GeoCities - quick and easy web site hosting, just $8.95/month.
http://geocities.yahoo.com/ps/info1
