Date: Tue, 1 Apr 2003 19:42:20 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: New headliner vs. old headliner, the measurments

Hello List,

I bought a new headliner from the Bus depot. I just
received it today. I knew that the measurements for
the "bow holders" were going to be off so I wrote down
the measurements from the old headliner and the
measurments from the new one. Here is what I came up
with.

http://www.hpphoto.com/servlet/LinkPhoto?GUID=a9073543-4a62-7fd2-1d89-522a7d5b2db5&size=

http://www.hpphoto.com/servlet/LinkPhoto?GUID=35d5253f-75d3-6657-10ca-4949767d6107&size=

Here is a little info to think about. I read in
previous posts that all of the bus headliner producers
were using very similar patterns which had incorrect
measurements for the bow holders. That said, I am not
making a complaint against the Bus depot at all. They
are my favorite online bus vender. I am not expecting
to exchange this one nor do I want a refund. I
expected these measurements to be off. Other than
these off measurments, the headliner is very well
made. also, I know that a 30 year old headliner will
have stretched a little. The "old" headliner used in
these measurements was still very tight and did not
sag at all.Having a 1" wide bow holder in the old
headliner vs. the 7/8" wide bow holder in the new
headliner is probably acceptable but having a 2 5/8"
wide bow holder on the NEW headliner compared to a 2"
holder on the old one is unacceptable and will have to
be altered. Oh, one other thing. the old bow holders
were made out of vinyl and can give a little when warm
to allow for slight imperfections but the new
headliner uses linen holders which probably don't
give.

I have already made a plan on how to alter my new
headliner. It looks like a pretty easy fix if you have
a sewing machine.

Any way, I thought I would share these specs for those
interested in replacing your old headliner.

Have a great day!

Regards,

David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

P.S. If anyone tried to email me today, my mail box
was full. please email me again. Thanks!
