Date: Sun, 8 Jun 2003 20:54:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Volknstein's monster, spoiled brat

Hello List,

I mentioned a few days ago that I had very low engine
vacuum. I started out with 7in of vacuum at idle.  I
discovered that I was running on 2 cylinders. After
checking the firing order on my distributor, I found
that I had switched 2 spark plug wires. (Thanks Karl)
After fixing that, the engine was running better but
it still had a miss. I checked vacuum and it came up
to 14in of vacuum at idle. I pulled the spark plug
wires one by one off the dizzy while it was running
and found that I still had one dead cylinder,cylinder
#4. I pulled the spark plug and examined it. It was
not fouled out and the spark gap was right on. I
smelled it and it smelled like oil, not gas or exhaust
so I knew that it was not getting fuel. I knew it was
probably either the injector (new) or the injector
lead. I tried switching the injector lead with #3
cylinder and low and behold, cylinder #4 worked and
cylinder #3 was now dead, so I knew the lead was
faulty. I replaced the lead with one from a scavenged
f.i. wiring harness. I cranked up the engine and
Sucess!!! The engine sounded beautiful for 15 seconds.
About that time, my bus threw a temper tantrem and
locked up the alternator (origional used) throwing the
belt to the ground. Not to be discouraged, I continued
to fine tune the engine. It now has 17in of vacuum at
idle and almost 20in at around 2000rpm. I think that
is a pretty good improvement. I think I have spoiled
her. I guess since I replaced her old worn out engine
with a rebuilt one, she thinks I will replace all her
old parts with new ones if she gives me trouble with
them. Sneaky heffer. :)

Any way. I just thought I would share. Have a grate
day!

Regards,
David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Calendar - Free online calendar with sync to Outlook(TM).
http://calendar.yahoo.com
