From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: mthornton1(-at-)cox.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 31 Dec 2002 13:56:35 +0000
Subject: How cold is it, Johnny??

Mike Thorntos says:

>Hey-
>Speaking of  HEAT! Its freaking COLD in the bus!!!  Even with all heating 
>in
>working order.  What do you do?


Mike, it is NOT cold out yet.  It is pleasant out.

I used to have 1/2 of the 2 car garage.  Often, I would get to the office 
before I noticed that it was chilly out.  Now, my '72 Westy is in that 
space, and the wife still keeps the other space for her car.  Been like that 
for 2 years now.

I get enough air flow to the front that I can stand up streamers from the 
windshield defroster vents.  In fact, that is one of the SAFETY inspection 
criteria; that you have a working windshield defroster!!

Well, the heat comes from the engine, OK!!

The engine is NOT suppose to get overly hot, and in the winter, you can bet 
it is a bit 'not hot'.  Of course, during the summer, that is another thing. 
  (In July, 3 or 4 years ago, it was super hot.  I was driving in the 
mountains of Pennsylvania with a system that was lean'd out to pass emission 
inspection.  I just did not take it back to the service center to have the 
air/fuel mixture reset after I passed the inspection.  Well, it got so hot 
INSIDE the Westy that I melted my face cream!!  The face cream was inside a 
kit pack, which was inside a soft travel bag with all my camping clothes 
which was inside the Westy, which was sitting of the 2" foam cushion over 
the engine bay area which was sitting on a few layers of things (duffle bag, 
shower curtain, a strip of a cardboard box).  And STILL the engine got so 
hot that it melted my face cream.

The shelf over the engine bay, and under the cushion and stuff got so hot I 
could not lay my hand on it.  It took a little while for the Westy to cool 
down enough that I could open the engine hatch and door to get some air back 
there  (OK, maybe a little exaggeration here.  A "little while" would be 
measured in minutes and fractions of minutes...)

So, grant me that my Westy can throw out heat.

In fact, to heat my garage  before I work on the Westy, I get the Westy up 
to running temp and I bring it into the garage and open the engine bay!!

So, even with a solid hot air transfer system, and an engine that can get 
hot and keep on running, I still do get cold during the winter.  I use 
gloves (just got a nice pair for Xmas for this reason) and at times wrapped 
my lower extremity with a wool blanket, the 'throw blanket' kind.


Often, during each of the four seasons, I take my lunch in the Westy, back 
seat and a Vanagon lunch table.    Grandma did sew my wool blanket at one 
end so that I can kick off my shoes (always do that to get comfortable.  Our 
house is 'shoes off' and I am used to it) and slip my feet into the blanket 
and pull the blanket up over my lap.  When it gets really cold, I have a 
light weight sleeping bag that I use to get my feet warm...  But this Xmas, 
I got a pair of down filled booties (I think from Brookstone) that I will 
use at lunch.

My Westy is pretty air tight.  I have to open a front door to close my 
sliding door (or really slam the sliding door).  Then the front door won't 
close without a hard slam.  When my passenger exits and I am staying in the 
VW, I will quickly roll down my window an inch or two so they can close 
their door without slamming.  You can see the Westy fiberglass top lift when 
I slam any of the three doors!!

And still I get cold!!!


I have a BN4 heater that I took off a '77 bus.  It is still in my basement 
because I really don't think I need it.

So, I got great air flow, notorious engine heat, air tight Westy, driving 
gloves, lap blanket (an airline blanket now), stock insulation at the 
firewall front panel, a Bra (Really keeps the cold off the front as I am 
driving) and still I get cold.

Welcome

Barry sends     Springfield Virginia



_________________________________________________________________
STOP MORE SPAM with the new MSN 8 and get 3 months FREE*. 
http://join.msn.com/?page=features/junkmail&xAPID=42&PS=47575&PI=7324&DI=7474&SU= 
http://www.hotmail.msn.com/cgi-bin/getmsg&HL=1216hotmailtaglines_stopmorespam_3mf
