Date: Tue, 18 Jun 2002 22:28:57 -0700 (PDT)
From: Tyler <busboy5447(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Possible trades in CO?

Hi All,
I have been thinking about trading my bus away. It is
a 74 pop top non deluxe westy. It will run as soon as
I finish up the weber progressive install, Just did
the clutch the other day also. Has the correct 74
westy interior for the most part although someone
covered the seats ( front and back) and the wooden
wall and door panels with some tan fabric. The blue) I
think) Plaid is still under the rear seat fabric and
is still in great shape on the top bunk. Sink works,
Still has Ice box cabinet, table with leaf, rear
closet, full size bench. I will hopefully have
pictures up within a couple days. It has very little
rust, Just a little bubbling next to the rear hatch
glass seal, and a couple paint chips on the nose, It
has a few dents, on along the bottom of the sliding
door that was left by a bumper of a 70's cadilac when
the PO had it. This bus has had some bad luck in the
PO department. The dash had all kinds of screwy wiring
and extra knobs that I removed. Had a 1600 bug engine
when I bought her and now I got the correct 1.8 in
there and have seen it run in the bus, I just had to
replace the old dual kadrons with a new progressive.
there is also some loose wires from when they did that
engine conversion. The entire heating system has been
removed with the exception of the heater boxes. The
poptop is also dingy. This is a presentable bus with
tan paint from the waist down and white from the waist
up. Jalousies work, sliding door works great. Could
use new  carpet in the back. I am being completley
open about this bus because I'm a big believer in
karma. 
Now for what I'm looking for: I want a non-pop top   
( cause I wanna get one of them nifty full or 3/4
racks some day)  bus that is older than 72 ( type 1
powered) That runs and drives good ( if it runs and
drives good then I don't care how bad it looks. Would
like passenger bus or hardtop camper or westfakia. I
am located in Denver Colorado. Would trade straight
across or trade down with a little cash thrown my way.
I have over $3000 thrown into that bus( purchased for
$1700 in december, traded car worth at least $600 for
1.8 motor, 300 for weber carb kit, 80 for used
alternator from busted bus, 150 for clutch kit, I know
there is no way I'm going to get that much out of it
so I would really like to get about 2k out of it.
Later,
Tyler in Denver

=====
70 bug
74 Westy

Please visit my site at http://www.geocities.com/busboy5447/index.html

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! - Official partner of 2002 FIFA World Cup
http://fifaworldcup.yahoo.com
