Date: Sat, 27 Apr 2002 00:46:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: Carl Kugler <carlk3(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Finally passed CO emissions inspection

Our bus is a 1967 deluxe.  Engine:  original block,
now 1600 cc w/dual port heads, C/W crank, 110 cam, 34
PICT carb, extractor ehaust.  This bus has a history
of failing emmisions.  The P.O. tried about 4 times,
but all the tweaking in the world couldn't overcome
the cam.   He finally, temporarily, put in a loaner
engine from a junkyard (with one dead cylinder!) in
order to pass the test (in CO it is seller's
responsibility).  Now, unfortunately, we have to part
with this beautiful bus.  So, now it was our turn to
get a "clean air colorado cert".  With the 009 dizzy
that the P.O. installed, it was hopeless.  I put on a
reman. V.A. dizzy and got a much better idle.  Huge
amount of advance at idle; around 40 degrees, but
still a loping idle that won't fire on every stroke
despite any tweak.  Anyway, the bus runs so much
better with the v.a. dizzy (better response, gas
mileage, idle) that I can't imagine running an 009
again except in special situations like dual carbs. 
First attempt at CO emissions; 1800 ppm HC at idle,
with a limit of 1000.  At 2500 RPM, HC was at about
800, under the limit.   I found out that the spec for
"idle" goes up to 1350 RPM, so on the next try, I
advanced the static timing all the way to 12 degrees
(rule of thumb is that here in the Rockies we should
run 5 degrees more advanced than flatlanders), set the
idle just below 1350, played around some more with the
34 PICT's idle air and mixture screws.  With the cam,
the carb adjustments are rather insensitive.  Seemed
to idle best with the air screw about wide open and
the mixture screw completelyclosed.  I settled on a
half-turn open on the mixture screw.  In the test, all
this tweaking was good for 1600 HC, still way over the
1000 limit.

Now, here's the good part.  Maybe this is an old
trick, but I haven't heard of it.  I went to Ken's
Muffler in Longmont, CO, and had them unbolt the
muffler at the 3-bolt flange and replace it with a
cat.  Basically, they had to fabricate a 3-bolt flange
attached to a catalytic converter attached to a
tailpipe.  Simply replaced the muffler with a cat. 
Cost:  $200.   She's a bit loud, but not bad enough to
make the neighbors complain.  The cat does act as a
muffler to an extent.  Certainly quieter than, say, a
stinger.  Went to the inspection station and came in
at 400 HC.  Way, way under spec for all requirements,
including HC and CO.  I'm happy with this solution.  I
tossed the muffler under the rear seat and if the new
owner wants more quiet, it's a matter of 3 bolts to
switch back from cat to muffler.  Anybody running a
cam might find themselves in this position.  It's
tough to get a good (legal) idle with a cam.  On the
other hand, if you are the kind of person to run a
cam, you probably have an extractor exhaust, too.  If
you have an extractor, it's easy to bolt on a cat,
which can easily get you through the test for fairly
short money, considering.

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Health - your guide to health and wellness
http://health.yahoo.com
