Date: Sat, 13 Oct 2001 21:08:37 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The journey of moisture and a change of heart about undercoating.

Hello List,

I know it is not Friday but I think this topic is ok.
I was in the process of cutting away the rocker panel
on the driver's side of my bus today. I was actually
able to follow the path of the moisture that caused a
holes in window sill, the floor, the beam underneath
and finially through the rocker panel in my bus. The
vent wing window's seal on the driver's side middle
window was splitting apart and the bottom of the vent
window frame started rusting. This rusted a hole in
the window sill. Water then trickled into the bus
through this hole and collected on the floor under the
rubber mat. It eventually rusted a hole through the
floor, then through the beam underneath and then right
through the rocker panel. . Needless to say, I have
been busy with the grinder and welder.
 On another note. I want to change my suggestion about
the undercoating. I mentioned the other day that I had
worked in a body shop and had helped undercoat cars 
before. I had not seen what under coating does to
metal. The factory paint on the underside of my bus is
dangerously thin. Undercoating does a horrible job at
keeping moisture out, especially 28 year old
undercoating. After proding, probing, scraping, and
crying, I do not plan to undercoat the bottom of my
bus. Instead, I plan to section out the bottom of my
bus into small workable areas. I will strip each
section to the bare metal, remove all rust possible
and weld in metal when necessary, I will make sure
every thing in that section is sealed up, prep it and
paint it with por 15. To do this, I will probably put
the bus on a lift so I can get to all the hard to
reach areas and work on each section as I can afford
the por 15. For now however, I am just going to try
and fix the areas that have to do with the shell of
the vehicle. One thing at a time I guess. I just
thought I would share.

If you have a rust free bus, please, make sure your
windows doors and seals are properly sealed and make
sure you tend to rust holes before they cause others
to appear. they only get bigger with time.  Don't wait
until they eat your bus alive.
Thanks for tolerating my rant.

Have a nice day,
David Kelly
From Wilmington, North Carolina

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Make a great connection at Yahoo! Personals.
http://personals.yahoo.com
