Date: Wed, 8 Jun 2005 07:57:47 -0400
From: "Messa, Corbett \(GE Infrastructure\)" <Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Dual carb troubleshooting techniques needed - update

First off, thanks for all the tips. This list has been a great resource for me
over the years.

I stopped by last night and got a chance to look at the carbs again. We
disconnected the  throttle linkage and fired it up. Once the chokes fully
opened I removed each spark plug one at a time. It appeared to me that the
left side plugs had less effect on the running of the motor. Particularly
number 3. I then went to spraying carb cleaner around the base of the right
(hotter running) carb. Nothing changed. I then sprayed the left carb.... It
accelerated. Any time I even sprayed close to the base of the manifold the bus
would accelerate. So it looks like I was completely wrong about the right side
being the problem, at least this problem.

We removed the carb and manifold and found that one of the manifold gaskets
was not on the stud, but beside it.... opps. That could cause a little problem
:) I also noticed that beside one intake hole there is a bolt and a washer
that looks like it is to wide and keeps the manifold raised a little. I did a
little dremel work on it and think I got it sitting flush now. I believe this
bolt has something to do with the old air injection system? There is a stud
plugging a hole beside each intake. Most of them are long and stick out away
from the engine. This is the only one that was flat and close to the intake.
It was to tight to remove, so we made due.

Did not get a chance to fire it up again as I needed to go home. Maybe today
we can get a chance to fire it up again and go back to syncing the carbs and
seeing if we can get it running correctly.

Thanks again for the simple suggestions. I am just glad that we actually found
something wrong and it was an easy fix. Hopefully the rest goes better.


Corbett
