Date: Sat, 12 Mar 2005 07:49:23 -0800 (PST)
From: Greg Thompson <gretnagreg(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 79 horn repair

Hey folks, I just repaired my horn and wanted to share
the experience.

The late bay horn wiring is different from the early
bay wiring.  The hot wire to the horn comes straight
from the fuse box.  The ground wire from the horn
enters the body and goes up to the wiring connector
for the "plug-in" turn signal switch. It is solid
brown. It then goes up to the turn signal switch and
terminates in a copper leaf spring thingy. This leaf
spring thingy is in constant contact with a copper
ring at the base (back side) of the steering wheel.  
There is no wire that runs down the length of the
steering column nor is there a little spade connecter
at the base of the outer column cover.(This is
different from earlier bays.) There is however a 1
inch wire that connects the column to the steering box
(ground) at the rubber donut. This grounds the column.
 It goes from a bolt connected to the column over to a
bolt connected to the steering box, the two of which
are otherwise isolated electrically. There is also a
1-2 inch jumper wire that goes from the back side of
the steering wheel to the metal ring to which the horn
button attaches.  When you mash the horn button, the
circuit from the horn ground goes from the horn,
through the turn signal switch copper leaf spring
thingy through the 1-2 inch jumper to the metal ring
at the horn button which when pressed grounds to the
steering column thus completing the circuit.  At least
that's how mine works.

I hope this helps someone with horn problems.  This
was a challenge for me since my only horn experience
is with earlier bays and this was a bit different.  Greg

'74 Single Cab
'79 Westy
'02 Jetta Wagon TDI
