Date: Thu, 18 Apr 2002 11:40:17 -0700
From: Craig Spaeth <spaeth(-at-)gorge.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Tires for 15" wheels

I just made this decision and it sucks. What it really comes down to is
there is not a correct choice anymore. You need to chose the least bad
for you. The people who swear you need to have at least an LT rating are
overlooking the fact that there is is nothing narrower than a 205 with a
light truck rating. All tire manufacturers strongly warn against putting
a 205 width tire onto a 4.5" wide rim (15" bus rims are 4.5" wide). I
have just removed a set of cheap $30 car tires and they suck. They might
not feel bad to someone who has not driven on something better but they
wallow around and the sidewalls cracked prematurely from the extra
flexing. You can imagine how bad these would be in an emergency
avoidance situation. If you do alot of highway driving you are going to
want to stay with something tall so your motor is not winding out too
much. If you are really just using it for hauling and around town the
Continental tires for the Eurovan would be perfect. They are 195/70/15
so they are about 2.5" or so shorter than stock. This will lower your
gearing even more than it all ready is! But they have a load rating of
1898 or so. Dunlop makes a radial rover p metric in a 205/75/15 that is
the right height and has a load rating of either 1498 or 1598 (I can't
remember which) but it has a fairly agressive tread. I went with the
Pirelli Scorpian in a 205/70/15 which was .6" smaller than factory size.
I am doing mine mail order and did not want any rubbing issues or not
being able to get them under the fender lip. This tire is 1.3" taller
than the 185sr15 car tires I was running so I figure they will be better
than what I had by a long shot. I did not check with Coker tire for any
specialty stuff that may be available. You can do alot of research at
tirerack.com and do a search for "tire calculator" at your favorite
search engine. The spec area for each tire at tire rack gives you the
load ranges and the diameters. Tires you don't know about you can
compare using a tire calculator. The diameter of a 205/75/15 is I
believe 27.1" which is the same diameter as factory (but waaay wider) so
you can use that to see how far from stock the size you are considering
is. I finally decided on the 205/70/15 Pirelli Scorpian at $52 a tire. I
had also looked into rim widening or different rim options and there is
nothing on the affordable side of things that will allow a wider rim.
Anything that is wider has the wrong offset so you usually are stuck
with even skinnier tires just to make them fit, which defeats the whole
purpose. As you can see for an early bus on 15" rims you are really
stuck choosing the lesser evil instead of what is the perfect setup.
Choose your poison.
I hope some of this rambling helps,
Craig
the Gorge VW club

