From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 23 Sep 2001 20:21:39 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] carb jetting

In a message dated 9/19/2001 11:55:55 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
jdlan55(-at-)triad.rr.com writes:

<< I need some advice with carb jetting. I have rebuilt my 67 kombi engine ( 
H block) to 1641 with all else stock. SP heads with a 30 pict 1 carb.>>

Hi John,
The 30PICT-1 carb with 24.0mm diameter venturi was not original with your 67 
bus, but will work better with the 1641cc since it was designed for the 
1584cc (96.6 cubic inches).  The stock carb for your year bus was the 
28PICT-1 with only a 22.5mm diameter venturi.

<<I'm running exremely rich. Sooty plugs and exhaust, and fuel in the oil. 
The carb has a 120 main and 125 z air corection jet. Is it better to lean it 
with a smaller main jet or a larger air correction jet? How do you know if 
youre too lean? >>

First go out and buy a carb jet gauge tool!  These cost about $30.00, and 
will save you alot of time trying to set your carb correctly.  All too often 
the jets are worn too bigger sizes, or some ham head has drilled/reamed out 
the jets to way bigger sizes.  Even new jets can be a couple of sizes off 
from thier stamped numbers!
  Next check your fuel pump push rod for proper hieght and check the fuel 
pressure output.  If you have a electric fuel pump you need a pressure 
regulator and still need to check fuel pressure.  If you have fuel dripping 
out of the carb throttle shaft just after you shut off the engine you need to 
replace the shut off valve and/or the float in the carb.
  Next figure out what size pilot jet (Idle jet) you need by installing a 
small main jet like a 110 so it does not overshadow the pilot jet with too 
much fuel and then try differant size pilot jets till you get the engine to 
not only idle but the air/fuel mixture screw work/operate properly.  Next 
increase the main jet size till you rid the engine of the stumble when you 
give it gas from an idle.  Both the main and pilot jets allow more gas to go 
to the engine the bigger they go.  The air correction jet the bigger you go 
with the more air is bubble into the fuel going to the main jet at high RPM 
range.  So what you do to set the air correction jet is to go to bigger and 
bigger air correction jets till you have a coughing/sneezing effect on th 
engine at 2,500-3,000 RPM out on the road.  Then just drop a size or two down 
and you are set!   
    We are using a brazilian H-30 carb with manual choke linkage on our 
1641SP CW engine in our 1960 panel camper conversion.  Still using the 
smaller 40 HP air cleaner and 010 distributor.  Pilot jet is 52g, main is 115 
and air correction jet of 128.  Since you are using a larger later air 
cleaner these jet sizes we are using would most likely result in your engine 
running too lean.
Eric&Barb
