Date: Thu, 21 Feb 2002 13:07:52 -0800 (PST)
From: blake cochran <madmanblake(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Body Restoration - Incremental or All at Once?

Howdy all,

I've been wrestling with this question ever since I
bought my first bus ('71 Westy).  When I bought it, I
knew it would need a good bit of body work done.  In
trying to decide how to do the work on the '71, I have
had various plans, depending on the day, the weather,
the ebb and flow of money, etc. and I have gotten the
answer figured one of two ways.    

First of all, the '71 needs rockers, the inner rear
portion of the front wheel wells, and the outer front
portion of the rear fender wells, and a new front
nose, or a lot of straightning and a new windshield
channel.  I fixed the rust underneath the windshield
by removing as much rust as possible, and filled it
with Bondo, just to get a windshield in, I figured it
would last a year or two (prolonging the inevitible),
until I could get the whole thing fixed, painted etc. 


So the first of my plans was to get the lower portion
of the bus fixed, and repainted to match (noncorrect
brown and white motif) and not worry too much about
the dented nose for now.  Under this plan, I would do
the nose and details everywhere else in a year or so,
totally gut the bus, remove the top, and get it all
painted.  

The more I think about it, I'm going to have to remove
much of the interior to do the sheet metal, so would I
be better off to gut it now, and do all the work at
once?  If I do this work incrementally, any match
painting before the full out paint job is wasted, and
this seems somewhat ridiculous.  I am sure doing all
the work at once would seem more logical, but I want
to drive my bus this summer...I have enough cash to do
the work and the paint job, but as I rent my house i
can foresee moving being a problem with this project. 
Also the storing of all the interior items, especially
the top.

So, although this is not a splitty topic, I seek
advice from anyone who has tried either method - doing
a little at a time, or doing the whole thing and being
apart from driving your bus for years on end.  Any
insights would be helpful.

Also, a related topic, my Westphalia top is somewhat
warped, and while I am not sure that it lets water in,
I am suspicious.  Therefore, when I stirp the bus down
for paint, I am considering replacing the top with a
Sportsmobile Penthouse type.  Anyone have experience
switching a Westy top to a Sportsmobile?  Or other
type top - preferably not a later Westy style.  or,
conversely, does anyone know of a source of good tops,
either used or new manufactured?

Thanks for any and all consideration,

Blake
'71 Westy
'59 Panel
 

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Sports - Coverage of the 2002 Olympic Games
http://sports.yahoo.com
