Date: Sat, 31 May 2003 06:47:44 -0700 (PDT)
From: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: installing wood panels.

"anyway I have taken all the interior 
panels out and recreated them in wood. Now the problem
...I am trying 
to figure out the best way to attach them to the doors
and other walls 
of the bus..."

---- When I installed wood panels I drilled holes
based
on the hole location on the originals. Unfortunatly
the holes in the panel are offset from the holes in
the body due to the interesting clip design;-)<doh!>..
I ended up
drilling new holes in the body and useing sheet metal
screws. Then painted each of them so they wouldnt
stand
out so much.. actually doesnt look bad.
  If I were to do it over (which I probably will as I
cant
leave well enuff alone) I would use a dab or two of 3M
molding/panel adhesive. Dont use a bead just a dab
here and there as the stuff is hella strong and you
may want to get the panel off some day.... the
adhesive and screw combo would insure they will stay
in place and the adhesive would help prevent any
rattle from developing.
  On the Doors...<sigh> when I redo the doors I will
buy replacement door panels from Ron or someone and
cover them with door skins (real thin verneer that
comes in a roll) as the doors have some interesting
curves that are hard to deal with if you use a thicker
plywood as I did.
This would hopefully allow the use of the  factory
holes/clips... IF you decided to use sheet metal
screws they have to be short or they will scrape your
window glass when you roll the windows down... or
actually prevent the windows from being rolled down..
<ask me how I know> arrgghh! Sometimes the obvious
isnt obvious!
I have some pics of my bus interior on my site with
the
8th" rustic cedar panels that I installed.. the
passenger doors were interesting to do.

=====
Dan Simmons
http://www.geocities.com/vw_bus_74/index.html

The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected.

__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Calendar - Free online calendar with sync to Outlook(TM).
http://calendar.yahoo.com
