From: "Don Tuleja" <durocshark(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Mark Hineline" <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2004 16:10:12 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake Lights Fixed!! (and cooling tin stuff)

Mark has a good point, and I, being constantly broke, always look to
repairing/refurbishing first if possible.

However, where my safety is involved, I don't hesitate. All my fuel lines
are new because of this philosophy.

I'm going to get new soft lines, either from VW or from a local shop that
I've worked with in the past. They don't really do much with ACVWs but I can
trust them to give me the best quality possible.

Two reasons I'm considering replacing the master cylinder. 1: The diaphragm
on the booster is dead. I'd have to pull it all apart anyway to replace it.
2: Black fluid = decay in the rubber of the brake system. Since there's no
way to tell if the master cylinder seals were affected SPECIFICALLY without
a teardown anyway, I'm going to swap in a freshly rebuilt unit. The calipers
are so rusty, I'm going to dig into 'em a bit and check the seals and such.

I used to deal with a local shop that would either swap an off the shelf
part, or rebuild your existing one, same price. 2 guys ran it, and while it
was more expensive than Autozoned or whatever, I knew they took good care
with their work. I tried rebuilding a MC myself once years ago, and it
didn't work for squat. So I'll let someone else that actually knows what
they're doing take care of it, assuming these guys are still in biz. It's
been a few years...

In the meantime, I *am* flushing the system completely. I've got a brake
bleeder pump around somewhere, I just need to find it... And get a gallon of
brake fluid. heh

Don
