From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 2 Jun 2004 10:19:28 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Aftermarket parts

> Many aftermarket parts are rebuilt from cores.

As long as you're dealing with a reputable retailer, no aftermarket part
will be rebuilt (as opposed to new) unless specifically sold and labeled
as such.  As for aftermarket companies using cores (defined here as used
parts) as a basis for coming up with their product, this would generally
only happen if they could not get a new sample to reproduce. The
exceptions tend to occur in cases where a new part has been unavailable
for many years, and a used sample was the only reference that the
company could obtain in order to design a reproduction. Typical examples
are largely cosmetic parts such as door pulls, etc. that small companies
are now reproducing because the original ones have long been
unavailable.

> And some parts on the markets are outright piracy: 
> made to look like parts but not designed to fit anything.

This is a counterfeit part, not an aftermarket part. While such items
exist, I have yet to find any in the present day Bus parts business. Old
bus parts are not exactly lucrative to counterfeiters.  If someone is
going to counterfeit a part, they will counterfit one that they can
unload quickly in volume before they are found out - not parts for an
old Bus!  

> This is one way that specification 
> errors accumulate, especially if you 
> start adding generations of molds.

This can be the case with original parts as well. Many of them are no
longer made from the original molds, which have long since become
unservicable. So they are made from second or third generation copies of
these molds. Depending on the condition of the tooling that the original
manufacturer is using, and the quality of the competing aftermarket
part, it is therefore even possible for some aftermarket parts to be
better quality than the "original" one that is currently being offered.

An aftermarket part can also be superior to the original in cases where
the aftermarket manufacturer identifies and corrects weakenesses in the
original design, rather than simply copying the original "warts and
all." An example (although this is actually a rebuilt part) is AVP's
type 4 bus heads, which use a valve seat design that is in fact superior
to what Volkswagen used 30 years ago. With the hindsight of seeing how
the original design held up in the real world over a 30 year period, AVP
was able to "build a better mousetrap" - making improvements that VW
themselves might have done had they not stopped their own R&D on Bus
parts ages ago.
 
It's often hard to know what parts are aftermarket and what are not.
Some parts sold as "aftermarket" are actually made by, or from the
original moldings of, the original VW supplier, but not identified as
such for contractual or marketing reasons. On the other hand, some
products with well known OE brand names may have nothing in common with
the OEM product that once bore that name. Some of the major German
brands have been bought and sold so many times over the years that the
only thing they have in common with the original supplier is that they
own the rights to the name.

Furthermore, a product that is OEM in one market may be aftermarket in
another. For example, Bosch is an OEM supplier of Bus and Vanagon oil
filters in some global markets, but the Bosch oil filters sold in the
U.S. are completely different - simply U.S. made aftermarket filters
repackaged as Bosch. So while a parts supplier could tout Bosch as an
OEM oil filter supplier to VW, the filter you got would not be an OEM
filter (and in the case of Vanagon filters, would not even meet VW
specs).

What's more, with the thousands of parts suppliers that VW has
contracted with over the years worldwide, almost any company could claim
to have been an OEM supplier of some part to some VW division at one
time or another. For example, a little known fact is that the
much-maligned East German Trabant was actually a Volkswagen product
during its last year of production. VW both owned and ran the Trabant
factory, producing VW-engined Trabbies before switching production to
Golfs and Polo's. So technically, a former eastern-bloc factory that
supplied parts for new Trabants while Volkswagen owned the company could
claim to be an OE supplier to VW - and German made, no less! - leading
an unfamiliar buyer to choose that part over an aftermarket part that
might (or might not) be truly superior.

So if you pay through the nose and buy only from the VW dealer, then
you'll get nothing but OEM parts, right?  Wrong. Even many parts sold by
the VW dealer network are in fact made by aftermarket suppliers and
rebranded as VW. For example, in later years the heat exchangers sold by
the VW dealer network were made by Jopex/Denmark, who was not the
supplier when the Bus was produced. And replacement wasserboxer cylinder
heads sold by U.S. VW dealerships originate from AMC/Spain. 

So there are no cut and dry answers, with either aftermarket, dealer, or
OE parts. There can be great variations in the quality and engineering
of aftermarket parts - and original parts as well.  Some aftermarket
parts are superior to OEM, some are comparable, and some are vastly
inferior. Some are sold as aftermarket but are really OEM. Some are sold
as OE but are really aftermarket. This is where dealing with a Bus parts
specialist will take you a long way, as we expend huge amounts of time
and effort sorting this sort of thing out on a part by part basis. To a
general auto parts supplier who sells maybe six bus wheel cylinders a
year, a bus wheel cylinder is a bus wheel cylinder is a bus wheel
cylinder. They just sell whatever their distributor sends them. A
specialist will know that there are at least six different aftermarket
wheel cylinders, who makes them, where they come from, how well the
manufacturer stands behind them, and how they tend to hold up. 

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
