From: "Beth Mathis" <mathisbeth(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Date: Wed, 05 Nov 2003 09:50:12 -0600
Subject: Engine Dies and Won't Restart (kind of long)

I'm having a problem with my '78 Westy.  I have approximately 5000 miles on 
a rebuilt 2.0L with hydraulic valves.  I have the original distributor.  
Rotor, cap, wires replaced at rebuild.  Installed Pertronix approximately 
1000 miles ago.

The bus has run wonderfully for the 5000 miles post-rebuild, with a little 
hiccup from the points.  All of a sudden, tho, it's stalling and won't 
restart when warm.

The bus will start and idle immediately when cold.  I let her warm up for 
about a minute (I live in balmy Houston), then take off.  Saturday she made 
the 10 minute trip to a friend's house.  I went in for about 10 minutes, 
then the bus started up and idled perfectly.  About 5 minutes into that 
trip, the bus just died.  No whimper, no stutter, nothing but dead silence.  
I pulled over, found a disconnected vacuum line.  I reconnected it, but no 
start.  Engine cranked but would not catch.  Another friend came and picked 
us up, and we ran errands for the next 2 hours or so.  When we got back to 
the bus, it started and idled immediately, made the 10 minute trip home 
without a problem.

Bus was parked until Tuesday evening.  I jumed in, and she started right up. 
  Let her idle for a minute or so, then was off.  Drove for about 5 minutes, 
then she died again mid-journey.  Towed her home and there she sits.

I didn't try to restart her, but I bet that when I do she'll start right up.

Recent changes:
-A friend has been driving my bus post-rebuild while his was out of 
commission since I have another car.  He was working on his while driving 
mine, and ended up swapping our plug wires at some point.  The bus ran fine 
for a couple of months with his plug wires.  I got my "new" plug wires back 
this week, a couple of days before the first stalling episode.

-The Pertronix was installed about 4000 miles post-rebuild.  The bus was 
having starting troubles and running roughly, turned out the points (new at 
rebuild time) were out of spec.  I just replaced them with a Pertronix unit 
and the starting and running rough problems disappeared.

-On one of the won't-start episodes before installing the Pertronix, the bus 
was towed home and the ignition left in the "on" position for about 20-30 
minutes without the bus running.  I've heard this can cause trouble with 
coils.

Although the plug wires were changed, I can't see them all failing at once.  
I think that if the problem were the plug wires, then I'd have trouble with 
1 cylinder firing and the bus would run rough.  My initial thought is that 
my wires are fine.

A friend of mine at work suggested that the problem could be with the coil.  
Since the bus starts and runs fine when cold, I'm wondering if the coil has 
a problem once the bus warms up.  I'm thinking that my problem would go away 
with a new coil.

My local VW buddy is coming over this weekend.  We'll start my bus, make 
runs around the block ad nauseum if required until she stalls again.  Is 
there a good way to check the coil before and after this exercise?

Any thoughts beside the coil out there?

This list has helped me so much in the past, and I'm grateful for all the 
past help.  I hope someone can help me with this puzzle....

Beth in Houston
'78 Westy 2.0L

_________________________________________________________________
Send a QuickGreet with MSN Messenger 
http://www.msnmessenger-download.com/tracking/cdp_games
