Date: Tue, 14 Jan 2003 12:40:28 -0500
From: 80 Westy Pokey <pokey(-at-)vanagon.org>
To: vanagon(-at-)gerry.vanagon.com, syncro(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: FS: Stainless Exhaust, Rear AC, Oil Cooler, and Jalousie Kit.

I recently purchased some parts for Pokey that I wonbt be 
needing now that I bought a Syncro. Everything (except the 
jalousie kit and rear AC system) is BRAND NEW NEVER 
INSTALLED. I will actually be returning these to the vendors 
and will be hit with a restocking fee and shipping to do so. 
Rather than doing so I would rather see a listee get 
a bdiscountb equal to the hit Ibll take.

Jalousie widow kit for b80 to b85 Vanagon Side Windows. 
Includes Jalousie Windows from a Bay and separate aluminum 
frames cut to fit Vanagon side window openings $60- US plus 
shipping. Would work for a bay without without the seperate 
frames.

Brand New Complete Race-Trim Oil Cooler System, 72 Plate with 
Direct Oil Filter Block Off & Remote Oil Filter Mount, Bus 
1700/1800/2000 1972 to 1979, Vanagon Air Cooled 1980 to 1983 
and Vanagon Wasserboxer 1983 to 1991  $100- US including 
basic shipping within continental US and Canada: 
http://www.bus-boys.com/oilcoolingremote.html

Brand New Stainless Steel Exhaust: This is a complete 
Stainless Steel Exhaust System for either a b72-b74 Bay or 
a b80-b83 (non-cat) Vanagon price $180- US including basic 
shipping within continental US and Canada. In a Vanagon it 
bolts straight to the heater boxes.

Brand New Sanden SD508 AC Compressor found on Vanagons thru 
1985 ($270- US), or alternatively use on an air cooled van 
with the adaptor unit $70- US. Both items unclude basic 
shipping within the continental US and Canada. As a set they 
can be used on your air cooled van with the system below...

Lastly a used AC System from a 83 Air Cooled Westfalia. Yes 
it will fit later models as well but you need the compressor 
and mount. Everything is here and was working in the summer. 
What you get:
- The Tan Cabinet that replaces the overhead Westy Storage 
Cabinet.
- York Compressor
- Brackets
- Pulleys
- Belts
- crank V belt 
- Condensor
- Mounting bracket
- Front coil,
- all hoses,
- all relays
- all switches
All you should need is a new dryer Asking price $500.00 US

For Canadian Buyers multiply by 1.55 for exchange

Thanks,
Chris
