From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "'Type2List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 6 Nov 2006 00:28:03 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Nokian Tires (ENLIGHTENMENT!)

There are strong reasons why VW specified the use of reinforced sidewalls on
Buses, Vanagons, and Eurovans. They could have saved a lot of money putting
passenger car tires on them, but didn't. Even today, in the age of "modern"
tires, VW continues to insist that only reinforced, LT, or extra-load tires
are safe for use on their vans. In 40 years they have not once wavered on
this point.

You need to consider these issues:

1) A Bus GVWR (gross vehicle weight rating) is approximately 2800 lbs per
axle, so 1400 lbs per tire. (This is for a '78 Westy; it may vary slightly
on other years.) According to U.S. tire safety standards (and VW), a light
truck tire must handle this load in order to be considered safe for use on
your Bus.

2) Also according to the same U.S. D.O.T. standards, if you are using a
P-metric (passenger car) tire on a Bus, you must reduce its load capacity by
9 percent to obtain its safe load capacity when used on a Bus. So if it is
passenger-car rated tire, it must be rated at 1539 lbs to be equivalent to a
1400 lb capacity LT tire.

3) The U.S. D.O.T. also recommends that a 6% safety margin be applied, over
and above the tire's normal load (in addition to the 9% derating if it is a
passenger-car tire).

4) The tire must also be capable of inflation to the specifications that are
listed on your door jamb - otherwise it is unsuitable for your Bus. If it
cannot, then you are forced to underinflate your tires (as you should never
exceed the inflation capacity of the tire). According to AAA, tire
underinflation is the leading cause of accidents due to tire failure.

5) If you choose a tire that does not have sufficient sidewall strength, you
may not discover this during normal commuting. However, if you are swerving
to avoid an accident, a much larger percentage of vehicle weight can
suddenly be transferred to a single tire. That is when the tire's sidewall
strength is most critical - and it's the very moment when you are counting
on that tire to save your life!

6) People who put correctly-rated tires on their Bus for the first time are
often astounded at the handling that their Bus is capable of. The squirrely
ride that they thought was "normal" for a Bus was largely being caused by
tire sidewall flex!

Do not be lulled into a false sense of security by vacuous circumstantial
claims like "I've used passenger car tires all my life and never had a
problem."  That's like saying "I smoke two packs a day and have never had a
problem" or "I've never worn a seatbelt and never had a problem."  It may be
true, but it would be foolish not to at least accept that you are taking a
chance with your life. It's your life and your risk, so take it if you
choose, but at least be honest with yourself and admit that you are taking a
risk.

Correctly rated tires are available for Buses, both in snow and all-season
form. (We sell the Hankook all-seasons and the Vredestein snows, and of
course there are others.)  They are not all that much more expensive than
incorrectly or marginally rated tires. There are plenty of places where you
can safely cut corners on parts for your Bus - tires are not one of them.
They are your last line of defense in avoiding a potentially fatal accident.
Yes, you can perhaps use a slightly underrated tire and be just fine, if
you're never in an emergency situation - just as you can probably never wear
your seatbelt and be just fine. Personally, I wouldn't take that chance in
order to save $15 or $20 on a tire. I would rather have the peace of mind of
knowing that my tires can handle my Bus's load in an emergency situation,
than risk finding out in the last 30 seconds of my life that they couldn't.

(Do you get the feeling that I feel strongly about this issue? :-)

You can find more about Bus and Vanagon tire safety at
http://busdepot.com/details/tires.jsp .

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
