Date: Fri, 19 Oct 2001 22:56:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: bastardbus <oldvw(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] sundial vs westy

Hi guys, having run a Westfalia club years back felt I
had to throw in a couple cents...

Well, if most folks do not already know, Westfalia was
the only camper actually recoginized sold and
waranteed through VW.  It is actually considered a VW
item.  While Sundial, and all the others are not. 
There is a couple reasons why.

Westfalia was held to far stricter rules and safety
regulations.  This addresses the "window in the
closet.." complaint.  Westfalia campers were always
built from Kombi base models, later they were modified
kombis yet always Kombis.  If you notice most
non-after market campers are built from panel vans. 
These vans were far cheaper then a kombi.  They are
also less structurally sound when you start hacking
windows in the one paneled sides. There is no special
interior reinforcment panels around windows like the
Kombis and factory westfailas had.  Another example,
the English built Martin Walter Dormobile was built on
a standard kombi or panel van.  Starting in `63
Westfalia allowed the Dormobile top as an option on
any westfalia camper.  But westfalia added deluxe bus
belly pans under their campers to make up the loss of
strenght from large dormo top hole.  Martin Walter did
nothing to strengthen the vehcile.  I have owned
both..take a look you will see!   Volkswagen deemed
that an absolute necessary item in retaining
structural in tegrity of their vehicle.  These are a
few of the reasons why VW would not officilly
recoginze these aftermarket conversions.  And a few of
the reasons I have not been crazy about them.

I have owned dozens and dozens of campers. Wetfalias
and all the others.  I have always found the quality
of the Westfalia is unsurpassed.  The sundial is the
better of the aftermarket campers, yet still they do
not touch the quality and craftsmenship of the
westfalia.  Take a look at a nice original `59-`61
SO-23 westy...ubelieveable! Another example, compare
any westy tent in a rain storm next to a sundial tent.
Just take a look at the design of the roof...that will
speak volumes for comparison.  What would you choose
in a downpour?

As far as value, in my opinion and 15 years
expiereince with VW campers, the Westfalia is far more
in demand and brings much much more cash on the
market.  Not only because of the higher quality, but
because it is an official Volkswagen product.  That is
the way it is in any car hobby.  The officaly sold
part-vehicle usually always brings higher prices and
has higher demand then the aftermarket piece.

Yes, some folks mention that the sundial is far fewer
in numbers then the westfalias.   But look at it this
way also...so are Auto-stick Super beetles.  

I am a definite westy fan but do love all buses westy
or not!

Thanks
tds



__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Make a great connection at Yahoo! Personals.
http://personals.yahoo.com
