Date: Mon, 8 Jul 2002 15:38:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: What a find! I got my 0mile rebuilt engine from a junk yard.

Hello List,

I came across a find today! I have been the market for
a good type IV engine for the last 2 or 3 months and
today I found one. I had been calling my local vw yard
for one and the guy on the other end of the line kept
saying he would find me one. Well, he said this for
weeks so today I thought I would see what he had. As
we were looking throuhg his dozen or so junk buses, we
stumbled across an engine that he had rebuilt 4 or 5
years ago. it was a 914 2L engine (case #GC000937) He
told me that he planned to put it in a Porsche that he
had in the front lot but he figured that he would
never get to working on it again. This engine had 0
miles on it after the rebuild. I pulled out the dip
stick and found only assembly lube on the very tip.
This engine came with some tin, a bosch blue coil,
header pipes, oil breather/oil cap, and a few other
small pieces. I plan to take the heads back off and
check for any rust on the cylinder walls and clean out
any contaminets. that may have entered through the
intake ports and air injection tubes. I also plan on
wire brushing the engine and various parts and give it
a good paint job. To top that, he sold it to me for a
VERY reasonable price. Needless to say, I am a happy
man today. Does any one have any info that they can
give me on this engine that I would need to know? What
year model bus engine is it compatable with? What year
Porsche engine is it? Any help would be appreciated!
Thanks!

David Kelly

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Sign up for SBC Yahoo! Dial - First Month Free
http://sbc.yahoo.com
