Date: Tue, 20 May 2003 07:55:50 -0700 (PDT)
From: Gene Tilby <gtilby(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Bus List <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: 34 PICT 3 Adjustment

I thought this was kind of interesting so I figured I
would share and get some of your experienced opinions.
 My carburetor is new as of about 9 months ago when my
new engine was installed.  I recently put the bus up
on jackstands and left it there for about 2 months
while installing a new front end (shocks, brakes,
master cylinder and wheel cylinders, tie rods, drag
link, wheel bearings, center pivot bushings, etc.) 
When I had finished the front I looked at the back and
noticed a nice big puddle of brake fluid on the inside
of the passenger side wheel.  

Soooo, I decided to do the rear end too.  New brakes,
wheel cylinders, rear axle seals, etc.  Doing it part
time it took a little while so by the time I was done
I was pretty excited to take the maiden voyage but
when I fired it up it wouldn't idle for anything.  I
checked all of the normal stuff and didn't find
anything.  Since I hadn't done anything to the engine
or carburetor since before starting the project and it
had run fine before I started, I figured that the carb
must have gotten some gunk or gasoline dried in it
that was causing the problem.  I went ahead and took
it apart, cleaned it up (it was actually quite clean)
and tried to start it again.  No luck, it wasn't
sputtering or anything but would fall flat on it's
face as soon as it got anywhere close to idling.  

Having exhausted my expertise with carburetors I
headed to a friends house to see if two heads could
figure it out since mine couldn't.  We ran through the
whole adjustment procedure and finally figured out
that the volume adjustment screw had to be turned out
4 1/2 turns instead of the normal 2 1/2 to 3 turns. 
Once we did that the engine dialed in and ran great,
smooth as could be.  

I was a little concerned that the fuel mixture was too
rich so I ran it down to a local shop and had them put
it on the computer.  No problem, it would pass
emissions with flying colors.  Any idea why this would
have changed?  Do you think that the adjustment screw
is the wrong one for the carburetor?  

Not a big deal, I know, just curious to see if I have
a wierd duck carb here.  

Gene 
67 Deluxe

__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
The New Yahoo! Search - Faster. Easier. Bingo.
http://search.yahoo.com
