Date: Mon, 22 Oct 2001 23:25:41 -0800
From: Steve <swharris(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Greg Noble <greg(-at-)fuckdameon.com>, Vintage Bus Post <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] OCTO pix/non-buying



>Robert Davis' 59 westy was AMAZING.....>

My personal favorite was Roberts' 58!.  Did you get the drool off of it
after I left ? ;-)

My other favorite bus was the 65 Euro delivery SO-42.  Original everything
including the owner.  Vince Correll from Fresno.  OG two tone, Dormo top,
gas heater, Hirschman antenna, original front glass with crack and
corresponding story ect. ect.   All as it was 36 years ago.  The best part
was the personal pictures and stories from Vince.  Great guy!

Also got to chat with Blue Nelson.  He's back in town on a break from his
round the world in a New Beetle.  Truly amazing.  He is hitting every
country in the world!  Obviously some are not so friendly currently.  He has
been robbed, shot, taken into custody and literally beaten on the streets of
Russia by the police for entering a gas station the wrong way!!
Unbelievable.

Talked to Matt and Katie and I think I met Jason.  Not sure, cuz he wasn't
standing next to Darth.  Need to put a face with a bus at some point.  I
toted Joseph around in a back pack, so if you someone with a sleeping kid on
someone's back...that was me.

My one purchase was a stationary 55 gas heater for cheep.  Its only missing
the fuel filter (glass) and the intake and exhaust (those are always missing
for some reason).  I should have this one running really easily.  The guy
wanted more than twice than what I got it for, but when I first asked about
it, they had no idea what it was.  I ended up telling them about Eberspacher
heaters.  Turned out I knew more about gas heaters than I realized.  He knew
I was into them and let me have it cheep.  Funny, no one has them or wants
them out here.  I think they are fun to tinker with.

