Date: Thu, 8 Sep 2005 14:22:59 -0700 (PDT)
From: Stephen Byers <byersinc(-at-)swbell.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Another engine goes Boom!

My mechanic has been working on my son's '71 westy. PO
had put in a crate motor and then tricked it up with
dual carbs.  I've worked on single port /single carb
motors was feeling a little out of my element and was
out of summer (I teach school) so I opted to take the
bus to the mechanic. Mechanic is a local VW legend and
does great work.  I tell him I think it needs a top
end rebuild (bad compression on #3  and billowing huge
clouds of blue/black smoke on take off). After running
his own test he has good news - 150#s in 1 and 2 and
120#s in 3 and 4.  He adjusts valves, syncs carbs,
resets timing, change front oil seal, and discovers
the case bolts are loose. Retorques case, checks heads
- everything you can think of.  Notices that the
inside of case (through the sump plate) has "pock"
marks.  Today he has everything together takes the bus
out on the highway for a test - runs 20 miles out
great - no smoke, plenty of power etc.  Turns to come
back into town - engine starts running hot , oil light
starts coming on and finally "POP".  It appears that
the case has had water in it at some time.  My dillema
- Do I bite the bullet and have him build me an engine
($1500)  or do I take him a questionable Beetle motor
-1600 DP I have sitting in my garage (I know it ran
but have never had it installed in a bus) Or do I cut
my losses ($2000 into the vehicle including new tires
and power brakes) and get what I can out of the shell?
 The camper is complete with everything except the
side tent and needs a new canvas in the pop top.  No
real rust to speak of or any body damage.  Original
Paint etc...
Any advice would be appreciated.

Steve
'69 Westy
'71 Westy (maybe)
'02 New Beetle
'01 Mitsu Montero
'93 Huffy Jackal
