From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Dec 2004 09:28:19 -0500
Subject: Discount Tires (and Snows!) for Busses

As some of you may know, it's not always easy to find tires that are safe
for use on Busses at an affordable price. VW Bus tires must be capable of at
least 40-44 PSI inflation and 1400+ lbs load capacity. This rules out
virtually all passenger car tires, which don't have a strong enough sidewall
to meet those specs and are therefore hazardous for use on a Bus. By
allowing too much sidewall flex, they make the handling squirrely
(particularly in wind) and corner poorly. They must also be underinflated in
the rear, because they can't handle the required tire pressure. In extreme
cases (such as a sudden swerve to avoid an accident), the sidewall flex can
cause bead separation. You can roll your bus  That's why VW specified a
sidewall-reinforced tire, or one with a C load range or higher, for use on a
bus.  Unfortunately, many tires that meet those specs suffer from some
combination of the following drawbacks: Expensive, hard to get, a truck-like
ride (either too rigid, or too noisy, or both), or summer only tread (poor
traction during bad weather).

To this end I will now be carrying two different radial tires, both from OEM
suppliers to Volkswagen, that are well suited to the Bus and reasonably
priced. One is a snow tire, the other all-season.

The snow tire is from Vredestein of Holland, who is an OEM supplier of snow
tires to Volkswagen in Germany.  This is a sidewall-reinforced snow tire -
quite a rarity. A similar Vredestein snow tire was just tested in the German
magazine Promobil-Extra. Using a Volkwagen T5 (the newest version of the
"Eurovan") as the test vehicle, they did a head-to-head test of snow tires
from all the top names (Michelin, Uniroyal, Continental, etc.). The
Vredestein outperformed the others so dramatically that they said it was in
a class by itself.  It's very hard to find a suitable snow tire for a Bus.
If you drive your Bus in the winter, I strongly recommend that you buy a
pair while I have them, as I have only 5 sets and I'm not sure if I'll get
any more this winter. I'm keeping one of the sets for myself!  The price is
$82.95 each. Link:
<http://www.busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=SNOWTRAC>

The all-season tire is one that I've been recommending on this list for
almost ten years now from personal experience (although I've never sold it).
It's made by a Korean firm called Hankook, who also happens to be an OEM
supplier to VW (as well as Ford). I've used these tires for nearly a decade
on three different Westies, putting tens of thousands of miles on them
including one 30-day cross-country trip. They offer great performance for
the price. They have the same specs as the Michelin Agilis but are almost
40% cheaper. (Incidentally, Michelin owns a minority stake in Hankook.)  Thy
are all-season tires (unlike the Yokohama Y356, for example, which is an
excellent dry-road tire but that's about it), and have a less 'truck-like'
ride and better tread wear than the Continental Vanco8.  I've tried the
others, but have always ended up going back to the Hankooks. Unfortunately,
like the Vredestein, this tire is not easy to find in the U.S.  So last
month at the big SEMA automotive trade show I finally got around to stopping
by Hankook's booth, and ended up deciding to carry it myself.  I expect to
have them in about 2 weeks, at $66.95 each.  Link:
<http://www.busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=RA08>

Tires do not qualify for any further listmember discounts. On the other
hand, my website tends to undercharge for shipping on tires, which works to
your advantage; they will ship rather inexpensively.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
