From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Fri, 28 Jan 2005 06:38:30 -0800
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>, Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Don's CV boots -- let's get serious here

For what it's worth, Don, I was once in a far worse position than you 
are. I had to be out of a farmhouse in Maine on June 30, 1988 at 
midnight and headed for San Diego. On the morning of June 28, I got up 
and went out into the barn to finish my 1967 MG 1100 for the trip. I 
had been working on this car for five years. It was a bare steel shell, 
no paint, no primer; the mechanicals were arranged all over the barn; I 
hadn't made up the water lines for the "hydrolastic" suspension. In 
short, I was a good year, at a minimum. away from getting this car on 
the road. Even so, I was adamant that I could get it all done in two 
days and drive the car to California.

In other words, I was absolutely and completely insane.

My wife knew this, and behind my back had bought a VW rabbit for the 
trip. Somehow that day she convinced me to give up and put the basket 
case into storage.

But this was all before the internet, and e-mail (except for people who 
were born speaking Unix), and I didn't know anyone who worked on cars 
(I was a philosophy major, just finishing my undergrad degree) much 
less MGs. I was living entirely inside my head, or more appropriately, 
inside Plato's cave.

In short, I didn't have the luxury of the type2 list to get me 
straight. (From what I have seen, this list is the most friendly and 
supportive automotive support list there is, anywhere.)

All this is by way of suggesting: with CV boots AND brakes AND tires 
AND exhaust still to do, and only $200 to deal with, maybe you should 
NOT be driving this to Denver in two weeks.

Mark
