Date: Sat, 10 May 2003 05:05:55 -0700 (PDT)
From: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] aux blower

The red lever arm in the down postion completes the
circuit. The body/frame is used as though it were the
ground wire. The neg terminal on your battery is
connected to the body via the ground strap. Sooo on
your bus you run one wire to the device (lights, fan,
etc ) and one wire to the frame with a switch in line
to control the device. Or the device may have it's own
switch (radio).
  On the Aux blower the lever arm completes the ckt.
for a
relay that is mounted next to the fan. That is what
you are operating when you close the ckt with the
lever arm.
The relay is normally open. When you apply voltage to
the relay it closes shunting voltage to the aux.
blower fan.
   You use a relay when you are operating a high
current draw device like the fan. The wire run to the
front is a long way to run the current required for
the fan. A relay is a low current draw device. So you
throw the relay via the switch at the front and it
closes and allows voltage to reach the fan via a short
wire run. A relay can be thought of as a remote
switch.
  Another common use for a relay on a bus is the "hard
start relay" which will cure the intermittent starting
problem on your bus (if the starter isnt the problem
that is) instead of operating the starter with the key
you operate the relay that you mount back by the
starter which in turn acts as a remote switch to
operate the starter. The relay is much more forgiving
of the long wire run loss from the key to the back of
the bus than is the starter.
A short blurb on relays.
http://www.geocities.com/magicbus1974/Relay.htm
  The in line fuse on the supply wire to the fan needs
to be there BTW. 8-O

=====
Dan Simmons
http://www.geocities.com/vw_bus_74/index.html

The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected.

__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
The New Yahoo! Search - Faster. Easier. Bingo.
http://search.yahoo.com
