From: "Buddah VW" <buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, fullmoon(-at-)hville.net, NPBUSGUY(-at-)AOL.COM
Bcc: 
Date: Fri, 07 Jun 2002 14:32:41 +0000
Subject: High Country Bus Festival 6

HCBF 6 will be held on July 26, 27 and 28th - 2002 near Boone, NC.

for complete info check the web page:
http://www.mindspring.com/~contecmidwest

IMPORTANT INFO:
* T-shirts:  T-shirts will be handled on an advance order basis.  Goto the 
webpage and print the order form and send it to me via snail mail.  Shirts 
are $15, and they are being degined by fellow bus addict Jennifer Murphy 
from Boone.......Jennifer also desgined the shirts from HCBF 2.  You can 
pick your shirt up at the event. If your not going to be able to make it, 
you can still get a shirt, please add $5 for shipping and I will mail them 
too you.  There will not be extra shirts available at the festival, if you 
want one, be sure to get your order in by the deadline.

* VW Family Feud:  Look for the survey to go out soon.  On Saturday at the 
festival we will play the full game show version of the VW feud - hosted by 
Richard Dawson's drunken cousin.....Blistered Dawson.

*  Trading Buses:  If you have seen the show Trading Spaces on TLC then you 
know the drill.  Two bus owners will trade buses for one day, and each will 
make some improvement to the other persons bus.....NO PAINTING, but some new 
curtains, a new jump seat......who knows.   We have gotten a few 
applications, but if you and your bus would like to participate in TRADING 
BUSES, please email CLIFF STYLES and send him a picture of your bus:  Cliffs 
email is:   cliff.styles(-at-)cmcsg.com

*  CaraBUS:   If you would like to lead or start up a carabus from your area 
to HCBF please email me, I will create a page on the HCBF site with all of 
this information.

*  FMBC Breakfast:  The folks from FULL MOON BUS CLUB are going to fix their 
famous burritos for us all on Saturday AM.  Please bring your own 
plate/bowl/cup/fork/ect.  This way you can wash your own and we will not 
generate soooo much waste as we would using paper plates, ect.    THEY ARE 
NEEDING FOLKS TO DONATE SOME FOOD STUFFS, ECT to the breakfast,
to sign up for any items check the FMBC/hcbf breakfast web page:
http://quicksitemaker.com/members/snoop/grocerylistHCBF.html

*  Door Prizes:  If you have something to donate for a door prize, please 
email me.  We need "toys" for children and adults :-)


I will pass along more info later, didnt want to make this email too long.  
Let me know if you have specific questions.

CAN SOMEONE FWD THIS EMAIL TO THE VANAGON LIST? thanks!

- Buddah

_________________________________________________________________
Join the world’s largest e-mail service with MSN Hotmail. 
http://www.hotmail.com

