Date: Fri, 7 Jun 2002 14:53:07 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 32/34 PDSIT CARB SETUP & 72 VAC DIZZY FOR SALE!!!!

Hello List,

If any one has thought about changing back to stock
carburetor setup on their 72-74 bus, I have just what
you need. I am selling THREE 32/34 PDSIT carb setups
with manifolds. I am also including one complete air
filter assembly (Not the oil bath kind), One set of
linkage, and one NEW out of box air filter. 

Here is the deal. I am changing to a 2L engine with FI
and can no longer use these. One of these sets is for
a 72 if I am not mistaken. The other 2 sets are from
either a 73 or 74. I am selling these as a lot because
the 72 set is the only known working set. I was using
the other 2 sets for parts although they are mostly
complete. I am selling these as a lot also because the
72 had different jet sizes than the 74 if I am not too
mistaken. This allows you to play with the jet sizes
to match your needs.

This is what you will need to make these carbs into a
good working set. You will most likely need 2 new
gasket sets so you can re gasket them. (they have been
sitting up for a couple of years) You will also need
the gaskets that go between the manifolds and the
heads. Other than that you will probably need a few
mis. nuts and bolts to install. I am including a bag
of the nuts and bolts that I found that went with
them.
I will be taking these carburetors to High Country Bus
festival. 

I also have a GOOD stock dual vac. advance carb for a
72 bus.( I looked up the numbers to make sure) I am
selling the lot of carburetors with the distributor
for $200 OBO. Those coming to High Country Bus
Festival have first dibs. I want to sell this stuff as
a lot first but can be persuaded to sell the
Distributor separately. Pleas email me with any
questions that you might have. Have a great day!

David Kelly
Wilmington, NC
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
LAUNCH - Your Yahoo! Music Experience
http://launch.yahoo.com
