Date: Thu, 19 Feb 2004 08:30:06 -0800 (PST)
From: Steve Elms <selms(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "type 2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Single port manifolds

>I just wonder at times when someone takes a good
>running setup and changes it in the name of more
>everything.

There might be lots of reasons to change stuff. I my
case I had a single progressive Weber on a dual port
engine in my '71, (205,000 miles and counting). It was
horrible to get set up but over a period of several
years I got it running real good. However, I burned up
the 38 amp generator and decided to install an
alternator. After changing the fuel pump and
installing the alt. I discovered an interference
problem with the carb. So I changed to a set of single
barrel DeLortos (SP?). I should have made this change
years ago! The improvement was fantastic! I love the
way these carbs work. I thought I had my old
progressive working really good but the Dels are much,
much better, even though they don't have chokes. It
doesn't get very cold here in Texas but the other
morning it was in the 20's and she started right up
and even idled after just a few seconds warm up. So
the point is that if I hadn't changed I wouldn't have
discovered the benefit of the dual carbs. I know some
folks insist on strictly stock, but in my opinion
sometimes I can improve my bus by changing stuff. For
example, lowering the compression ratio has given me
longer engine life, swivel foot valve adjustors keep
my valves in adjustment better, adjustable straight
cut cam gears enable me to set my cam timing wherever
I want to, the type IV oil cooler keeps my oil a
little cooler. Lots of changes over the years, some of
which didn't work out very good but others did.

I love my Bus,
Steve Elms
