Date: Sat, 2 Feb 2008 22:37:12 -0800 (PST)
From: Anthony Hopkins <tony5amhopkins(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>, Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Arg!! Bad mechanic strikes.

HE might not know to get to forth you push down the
shifter...then go past 2nd.....he might have gone so
far the spring loaded pin in bottom of shifter ball(
under the floor of bus) popped out of guide
grove.....then had to remove the two bolts to
reinstall shifter and did not know how to adjust it
..or the small plastic bushing broke or was very worn
any way.....check the two bolts under rubber mat..13mm
with lock washers..are they loose? or do they look
like they have been moved?....kinda tricky to adjust
the first time you try..if you have to remove the
shifter...scratch marks with compass point or a dart
for referance points for re-installing.make sure to
note which way the flat piece of metal with two holes
is placed....that is your reverse gear lock-out...very
easy to put in upside down or back wards......but the
shifter just may be bent....good luck.....post
more....you will get thur this ...the rest of us have
