From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 18 Dec 2001 18:56:01 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] 28 PCI

In a message dated 12/17/2001 11:19:31 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com writes:   << Al-
 I don't know when exactly the main sprayer (and hence the main jet) really 
starts going.>>

Hi Joel,
Somewhere just above idle RPM.  The accelerator nozzle and it's pump take up 
the slack in the space between the idle and when the main jet really gets 
going.

<< What sprays when is determined by the vacuum present in the carb at any 
given time. When the throttle is closed or almost closed, vacuum is low and 
just a little gas is sucked out through those small holes near the throttle 
plate, via the pilot jet (and the mains, but flow here isn't enough for the 
main jet to have much restrictive effect).>>

Close, but not quite!  When engine RPMs are low the amount of air being 
sucked in through the carb is not enough to cause enough vacuum below the 
venturi.  So the throttle plate is needed to cause just enough vacuum to 
allow the fuel to be sucked into the manifold.

<< As the throttle is opened more, vacuum increases, and more gas is sucked 
through these progressively higher holes, until sufficient vacuum exists 
(throttle largely open) to begin sucking gas through that main sprayer arm, 
dead centre of the carb barrel.>>

Not only gas is sucked, but the air drillings in the top of the lower half of 
the carb allow a certain amount of air to be sucked in with the gas going 
into and thru the pilot and main jets.  So the gas is more a seltzer of gas 
and air bubbles.

<< This gas doesn't flow via the pilot jet or auxillary jet like the stuff 
which comes out the holes near the throttle plate, it comes straight through 
the main jet. So the mains doesn't really come into play until your engine 
picks up speed. And when the throttle is wide wide open and the motor is 
winding up like she's going to explode the air correction jet starts letting 
in a little extra stream of air bubbles into the gas flow to lean out the 
mixture some. If your bus is stalling at idle I would guess either your 
mixture screw is out too far or your pilot jet is too big. Emphasis on 
guess.>>

Too big of pilot, and/or main, and/or blocked passages and/or the carb is 
adjusted badly.

<< But it is a bit harsh judging a bus by how it behaves cold...
 Joel >>

Definitely!  The engine must be at least up to 160F oil temp and have all 
cooling, thermostatic flaps, and carb preheat pieces in place before any carb 
adjustment or jetting can be even figured out.   Eric&Barb
