From: "Mick McQuilton" <whoajesus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 28 Nov 2002 09:30:14 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Samba Effect /RANT/ (and a little long)

I'd like to comment on the original point of this thread, the bus value 
question which started it.

I've noticed the inflated values listed for many buses on the Internet. I've 
also chuckled my way through the "collector's" value listings you can find 
in "authoritative" automobile guides. Believe it or not one such guide - not 
NADA, and unfortunately the name escapes me - lists a 1971 Westfalia (the 
highest-valued of any VW bus ever, according to these folks) at $6,000 to - 
get this - $15,000 in mint condition. I don't know about you, but I've never 
met a VW owner who, regardless of their passion or level of addiction to 
these machines, would consider even for one drunken moment paying $15,000 
for one of them - though they might pay that over the course of 10 years in 
maintaining one, if their initial buying decision is a less-than-sound one.

On the other hand, there are those wise owners who will pay for the diligent 
work of others who have come before them. Taking a '71 for example, there 
are many beautiful (i.e. rust-free, original interior, rebuilt engine) '71s 
out there but I ask you, how many of those buses have been *comprehensively* 
maintained and overhauled? A rebuilt 1600 can be had for $1200-1500 
(installed), thus rendering the bus nomadic once again, but what about the 
rest of it? A '71 is 32 years old now. In order for it to be a safe, 
roadworthy and reliable vehicle, *every* system must have been overhauled at 
least once. That means *most* of the "beautiful" '71s on the market are 
really only Anna Nicole Smiths: pretty on the outside, but ready to take you 
for all you're worth.

I bought my '71 sight-unseen from an Internet ad for $740, which was, 
considering my ability to resurrect it, a bargain. I traveled 1,600 miles 
roundtrip to pick it up and not having a towing vehicle available, I brought 
an engine and transmission with me. Two days later I drove away a bus that 
was worth at least twice what I had just paid for it ... but it took a 
$2,000+ drivetrain and 24 hours of work to get it there!

Now that bus, rust-free and straight and with a brand new drivetrain was 
still, in my opinion, not worth more than maybe $2,000. The front end was 
wasted, ball joints so bad you could see them through what was left of the 
boots, tires correspondingly side-worn, shocks crappy, no seals where there 
should be, etc. etc.

A year later, I am asking $5,000 for that bus and while I may not get quite 
that much for it, if I am patient I will get close to it. Because, you see, 
it is worth it.

But I will have to wait for the right buyer.

It's my belief that most people who purchase old VWs (myself included, at 
least in the case of my first one) know very little about what makes a bus a 
pleasure to drive. They look at the engine, check for rust, kick the tires, 
and when they test-drive it and manage to get it up to 65 they figure it's 
good and buy it.

Bad, bad buyer. Bad.

If you put my bus next to another one with the same paint-job, same 
interior, etc. and price the other one $1,000 less, I'll bet 9 out of 10 
people would buy the cheaper one. Never mind that the cheaper one has a 
loosey-goose front end, cooked brakes, 150,000-mile tranny, no door seals, 
whatever. VW owners are, by and large, a cheap lot and if it runs and they 
can keep it in the right-hand lane at highway speed and stop it within a 
reasonable distance, it's all they need. Or so they think. Then they burn 
through a set of tires in 8,000 miles and wonder why the steering wheel 
keeps sliding back and forth 3 inches without moving the wheels. They take 
it to a shop and find out the "bargain" bus will now cost another $1100 to 
get the steering box, tie rods and ball joints straightened out (ALL '71s 
need new ball joints, *unless* someone had the foresight to fix them before 
they sold it).

So you see, a straight, rust-free bus is indeed worth something. But a 
straight, rust-free, mechanically sound bus is worth a good deal more. 
$15,000? Hmmm. Not to me. But $4,000-5,000. Well, yes: at least, that's what 
my $740 bus has ultimately cost me, and I'm not counting labor.

Bottom line: I still won't get my money back out of this bus, never mind the 
time (which I mostly enjoyed anyway). But someone selling a pretty bus in 
Oregon for $2000 doesn't affect that value of mine one bit. Let them sell it 
for that because chances are that's what it's worth. Chances are if you got 
underneath it and wiggled the right things and maybe measured the endplay of 
the engine and so on, you might think it's worth less.

I laugh when I see rusty old doublecabs on the Samba for $6,000 ... but a 
beautifully restored (inside and out, upside and under) doublecab is easily 
worth that, probably more.

To the right buyer. And I'll bet many of those right buyers - the ones who 
appreciate the time and money that goes into making a "real find" into a 
real car - are on this list.

Happy Thanksgiving, all!

Mick McQuilton
Aspen, CO
1971 Westfalia "The summer car" (but it's beautiful in the mountains today, 
and I think I might go drive her)




_________________________________________________________________
Help STOP SPAM with the new MSN 8 and get 2 months FREE*  
http://join.msn.com/?page=features/junkmail
