From: "Troy" <calivw78(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2001 21:54:43 -0500
Subject: 78 2.0 FI is about to fail....help please!!!

------=_NextPart_000_000A_01C0AA75.E2B32260
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="us-ascii"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Hello all,
            Some of you may recognize the email.  Im the one whose bus
was out of commison because the whole front end needed to be re-wired.
Well, got that done.  Yaaa!  But, its been about a month now and it has
been driving fine.  Starting on Friday, I noticed a loss of power and
the fact that the engine was idleing rough.  Now, it is getting worse by
the day and can't imagine what it will be like by the end of the week.
As of tonight, on a cold start, the engine will run high as it usually
does when warming up, but not for nearly as long as it needs to.  After
about 15 seconds, it drops, starts to hesitate really bad, oil light
comes on, then it revs back up (when it doesn't die).  Repeat this
process a few times.  When I take it one the road, it is ok, but has
slight power loss.  When I come to a light, idles really rough and oil
light comes on.  This bus is my baby but I have to admit that I don't
know a lot about them.  Young and still learning.  But, back in the day
I had a vacuum leak that was enormous.  Had to keep the engine reved up
just to make it to the shop...is this possibly a small leak that is
getting worse at a quick rate?  If so, where to I check for them?  I
have some starting fluid, but don't know where to spray.  Also, I don't
know if I have the time or the knowledge to fix this on my own and this
is my primary vehicle.  Does anyone know a repair shop around that knows
what they are doing with vw's??  I have talked to a couple around here
and could immediately tell that I would never let them touch a finger on
mine.  I am in Marion, NC..about 45 minutes east of Asheville and 45
west of Hickory.  I am mechanically inclined and good with instructions,
but just nervous about starting something that I may not be able to fix
due to lack of tools.   Not sure if this would matter or not, but over
the last 5-7 tanks of gas, I have been adding STP fuel treatment.  Also
added STP oil treatment on an oil change I did this weekend.  Thanks for
the help. 
 
Troy S. Wical
troy(-at-)wicals.com
www.wicals.com
 

------=_NextPart_000_000A_01C0AA75.E2B32260--



_________________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Get your free (-at-)yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com

