From: Mark L. Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Mon, 5 Jul 2004 19:55:03 -0700
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus for sale

On Jul 5, 2004, at 7:30 PM, Don Tuleja wrote:

> Ok. I'm done now.

Don, why not give yourself a week before you make this decision. Just 
sleep on it for a week or so. I'm going to give you some reasons to 
rethink your decision. None of them is a great reason by itself; you 
have to take the cumulative effect of it all (and doubtless others will 
add reasons I haven't thought of).

Reason #1: Every bus owner has had the experience of having someone 
come up to them in front of a gas station/convenience store on the 
highway, or in a campground, all moony-eyed, saying either that they've 
always wanted to have one of these (that is, your bus) or they had one 
once upon a time.  You can be the moony-eyed guy or you can be the guy 
with the bus. Which would you rather be.

Reason #2: My mother was diagnosed with Lupus in 1961 and was told she 
had only a few years to live. She died in 2003, having outlived my 
father by four months. Draw such conclusions from this as you will.

Reason #3: This happened to me while working on an MG, but it could 
have been a bus: it was up on blocks (stupid) and I was trying to get 
the kingpin out of the front suspension. It wouldn't budge; I smacked 
it with a hammer and got my thumb instead. In unbelievable pain I 
pulled myself out from under and pushed too hard on the wrong place; 
the car rocked over and collapsed off the blocks. Now, in a fit of 
blind rage, I swore a blue streak and threw the hammer in my hand. It 
went through the windshield. Somehow I got over all this, and was 
driving the car a month or so later. It took several more months to 
grow a smooth thumbnail.

Reason #4: There is no try. Only do.

Mark Hineline
