Date: Tue, 28 Jun 2011 13:39:07 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Lourd Baltimore <lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Importing to the US

Not as hard as all that.  I looked into a RHD doka a few years back.
 
Fortunately over the 25 year mark means no real issues for EPA or DOT.  You
would incurr the 25% "chicken" tax, but I'm not sure what that means if you
already own the vehicle, as you set the value I presume.  Could have
implications later for insurance etc if your recently documented declared
value was fictitiously low though.
 
Of course shipping isn't cheap (at LEAST $1500-2000 last time I seriously
looked) and then you will have customs, USDA inspections (better make sure no
sort of illicit plant or animal is tagging along.)
 
Would probably benefit talking to someone who does it all the time in the UK,
or perhaps shoot an email to busman.be if you can't find someone who knows in
the UK around you, he might point you to someone.
 
The point you should probably take though if the bus is clean and solid
(really truly passing MOTs), is that there are all those UK guys going the
other way and selling buses they paid $5-8000 US for 15000 euros, so think
carefully just how much you love this bus, a new one is merely a samba add
away, and probably nets you a tidy sum, even after you sort it.
 
Would even buy you a Propex over here, but probably smarter to buy one and
ship it in your household goods.
 
BTW I had a RHD mail Jeep for a couple of years, which I built as an offroader
(steel top) and it was very tedious to drive on the road over here.  Not a
real issue by any means, but tedious, just not quite right, or left, or
whatever.
 
John

--- On Tue, 6/28/11, Lourd Baltimore <lourd_baltimore(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:



We could probably sell Berta for a tidy sum and buy something in the States.
However, how about just importing her?
