From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 30 Aug 2007 09:28:24 -0400
Subject: Buses By the Beach - Bus Boo is Coming up!

WOOOOOOOOOHOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!! 

 

It's almost time for everyone to be together again at "BUS BOO!" Buses By
the Beach annual fall campout an Halloween before Halloween party in Grand
Rapids, MI Sept. 14th, 15th & 16th. It looks like we are in for another
great turn out of Bus Pilots and VW lovers from all over the country. So
bring your musical instruments for some campfire jamin'. Remember, it's not
about sounding good, just feeling good!

 

If you have not made reservations please call the campground so we can plan
for camping space. Call Grand Rogue at 1-616-361-1053 located at 6400 West
River Drive, Belmont, MI 49306. Make sure you tell them that you are with
Buses By the Beach group so they can group us all together.
http://www.grandrogue.com/

New this year will be a "family friendly" camping area that will have a
quiet hour of 9pm. If you are interested make sure you let them know when
you check in. 

 

Back by popular demand, we are camping during the West Michigan Living
History and Educational Association presentation of Early America Encampment
at Grand Rogue Campground. Visitors can view first hand what life in early
America was like. There will be period craftsmen demonstrating their skills,
including a blacksmith and a woodworker. Working with hand tools, they show
how everyday implements were made in early America. At the Encampment,
history buffs wearing authentic period clothing and living in period
shelters, present programs throughout the weekend. Activities will include
musket and cannon firing, men's and women's period fashion shows and
tactical demonstrations. For more information on the Early American
encampment go to: http://www.westmichiganlivinghistory.com/

 

Weekends activities include:

*        Early American encampment.

*        Halloween Theme campout.

*        Bus to Bus trick or treat. 

*        Award Ceremony:

1.      Best Halloween Site Decoration Award

2.      Best Kids Halloween Costume Award. (There will be three first place
winners)

3.      Best Adult Halloween Costume Award

4.      Oldest Bus Award

5.      Longest Distance Traveled Award

6.      Bus In Most Need of Restoration Award

7.      Department of Homeland Security Award (Bus most likely to get pulled
over)

*        Annual Buses By the Beach Chili Cook Off.

*        Tie Dying activity for children and adults. If you are interested
in this activity please click on the informational link below for details
before you come. 

 

For helpful tips for those coming to Bus Boo click on the following link:
http://busesbythebeach.proboards43.com/index.cgi?board=talk
<http://busesbythebeach.proboards43.com/index.cgi?board=talk&action=display&
thread=1188321421> &action=display&thread=1188321421

 

For a schedule of the weekends events click on the following link:
http://busesbythebeach.proboards43.com/index.cgi?board=talk
<http://busesbythebeach.proboards43.com/index.cgi?board=talk&action=display&
thread=1188322368> &action=display&thread=1188322368

 

For information and details about the Tie Dying activity please click on the
following link:
http://busesbythebeach.proboards43.com/index.cgi?action=display
<http://busesbythebeach.proboards43.com/index.cgi?action=display&board=talk&
thread=1188321971> &board=talk&thread=1188321971

 

Wishing you many miles of smiles as you travel in! Anyone with car trouble
can feel free to call the campground and ask for someone from Buses By the
Beach and we will be glad to help any way we can. 1-616-361-1053

 

The Volks Folks at Buses By the Beach.com

http://www.busesbythebeach.com/

 <http://cdbaby.com/cd/daisymay4> 
