From: "Duke Geren" <duke.geren(-at-)attbi.com>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Sun, 10 Nov 2002 22:55:55 -0800
Subject: Rear wheel problems.

Okay, two questions for the group.  Pulled my 78 in the garage today
with two tasks on the list.  One, to replace the CV boots and clean,
inspect and grease the CV joints, and two, to find the cause of a
rhythmic squeaking coming from the right rear wheel.

 

First, the six bolts surrounding the flange on each CV boot are,
according to Bently, supposed to be hex socket bolts.  However, after
cleaning the gunk out of the sockets, we discovered that mine look more
like a 12 point torx socket.  Six point size 40 torx bit fit just fine
but didn't give enough grab to loosen the bolts.  Since I didn't want to
strip the bolts, we stopped right there.  Does anyone know what I need
to get these bolts out?  Should I replace them with the hex socket bolts
for ease of removal/replacement?

 

Second, to find the source of the squeak (increases in frequency with an
increase in speed and vice versa) we went to get into the brake drum,
thinking that a pad may be rubbing.  Removed the two bolts that are
supposed to allow the drum to be removed and it would not budge, on
either side.  Am I missing something here?  According to Bently, it
shouldn't be necessary to remove the castellated nut to get the hub off.
We tried to use the adjusting nuts through the rear of the hub to pull
the pads back but the would not budge either.

 

Any help is appreciated.

 

Cheers,

 

Duke

 

78 Westy "Kermit"
