From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: jack(-at-)ganssle.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 26 May 2004 12:22:59 +0000
Subject: Fuel injectors / pressure

Jack, go to Sears (or Home Depot) and get a water pressure gauge from the 
sump pump area.  It is about $7 and both Sears nd Home Depot (in my area) 
have the same H2O gauge with different packaging.  Sears is Craftsman, if 
you want name brand..  It goes to 100 psi, and that is good enough for your 
needs.  And it is a big readout.

This gauge only needs a hank of fuel line (high pressure, same as your other 
fuel line; same size) and it attaches to the left fuel rail (a 7 mm hex 
bolt).  Use two clamps if you want.


Yes, all four FI can be not working.  My '76 was sitting for 15 years, and I 
replaced every fuel component up to the pressure regulator.  I replaced all 
four FI.  The four I pulled off were all no-op, as seen later during my 
testing.

When I could not get but 2 of the 4 cylinders to fire off, I checked spark 
and compression and fuel.  I found excellent compression and spark coming 
out of the spark plug (I pulled #4 wire from the spark plug, added a new 
spark plug to the end and grounded the spark plug and watched the spark when 
the engine was turned over with the other three wires pulled off.  Then, 
when I was doing the compression check, I checked the installed sparkplug 
and got the same good results.


My problem was now just #4 not working, and #3 working, along with #1 and #2 
working (FIF - #4 is the one nearest to the left rear, and there are 
cylinder numbers on the cooling tin right by the spark plug holes).  I 
pulled the FI wires to #3 and #4 and swapped them.  #4 would not fire, and 
#3 continued to fire.  This narrowed the search down to either the #4 FI or 
the fuel rail section feeding #4.

I did not pull the FI's yet.  I added a third fuel rail to the left side of 
the line where I could test some other FIs I had in my stash.  I 
disconnected the LEFT rubber hose at the cold start valve, and I attached 
the rail there.  I added a foot of hose from the right side of the new 
middle - third rail to the LEFT of the cold start valve, and clamped it.  I 
did not clamp the rubber hose sides that were connected to the third fuel 
rail since I saw that they fitted snugly and I planned to test a lot if FIs 
from my stash (and from my friend's stash)  (OK, I started by clamping all 
the hoses , but after a few replacements of the third furel rail with 
unknown sets of Fuel Injectors, i said 'forget about it')

Also, I connected the Sears H2O gauge at the original LEFT fuel rail with 
5"of FI hose and clamps.

I was working by myself, and I just wanted to see if I was spitting out and 
fuel from theunknown sets of Fuel Injectors.  I had some gas station blue 
paper towels (wiping windows; checking oil) and I tore one in half.  I 
wrapped half + half of the blue paper towel around each of the two extra FIs 
on the third fuel rail, and loosely secured them with a wire.  I wish I had 
rubber bands, though.  The towels covered the pintle (sic - spitting end)

I pulled the wires off the #3 and #4 FI on the left rail and attached them 
to the FIs on the middle-third fuel rail.  I doesn't matter which to which, 
just where they most easily fit.

I simply pulled the Fuel Injector wire(s) (there is a real name for them, 
but I don't want to use my time to look them up at aircooled.net ot 
bus-boys.com or busdepot.com or bentleys) off the ends of the FIs.  They 
pulled right off for me and snapped on.

With everything connected, I pulled the coil to distributor big wire so as 
not to start the engine running, and grounded it with a small jumper wire so 
as not to throw sparks  (any other reason??) and turned the ignition on for 
about 3 seconds.

Ignition to off position.

I looked went back and looked at the blue paper towels that were wrapped 
around the ends of the two Fuel Injectors, and if I got fuel, the paper was 
very noticeably wet.

I could not measure or visually sight the spray pattern, but I did get a 
positive indication when a FI was spitting fuel. And when it was not.

More than half of the FI I tested this way were good.  The original FI that 
were on for 15 years all failed this test.

I used the left side because it was easiest to get to the FI wires, and had 
more room.  I could get the middle - third fuel rail to twist over enough to 
the left to reach the FI wires.

That's it.  I replaced the FIs as appropriate, and I got all 4 cylinders to 
go .

But, I really don't think it was the Fuel Injector after all.

Barry sends

_________________________________________________________________
Stop worrying about overloading your inbox - get MSN Hotmail Extra Storage! 
http://join.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200362ave/direct/01/
