Date: Fri, 30 Apr 2004 12:48:26 -0700 (PDT)
From: Eric Jakobcic <widefiveguy(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "overclockedinaz b." <overclockedinaz(-at-)yahoo.com>, Enno Camenzind
Subject: A nice comeback

  As some of you may know, one of my sons serves in the military. He
is
still
stateside, here in California. He called me yesterday to let me know
how
warm and welcoming people were to him, and his troops, everywhere he
goes,
telling me how people shake their hands, and thank them for being
willing to
serve, and fight, for not only our own freedoms but so that others may
have
them also.

But he also told me about an incident in the grocery store he stopped
at

yesterday, on his way home from the base. He said that ahead of several

people in front of him stood a woman dressed in a burkha. He said when
she 
got to the cashier she loudly remarked about the US flag lapel pin the
cashier 
wore on her smock.

The cashier reached up and touched the pin, and said proudly, "yes, I
always 
wear it and I probably always will."

The woman in the burkha then asked the cashier when she was going to
stop 
bombing her countrymen, explaining that she was Iraqi.

A gentleman standing behind my son stepped forward, putting his arm
around
my son's shoulders, and nodding towards my son, said in a calm and
gentle
voice to the Iraqi woman: "Lady, hundreds of thousands of men and
women
like
this young man have fought and died so that YOU could stand here, in
MY
country and accuse a check-out cashier of bombing YOUR countrymen. It
is

my belief that had you been this outspoken in YOUR own country, we
wouldn't 
need to be there today. But, hey, if you have now learned how to speak
out so 
loudly and clearly, I'll gladly buy you a ticket and pay your way back
to Iraq so 
you can straighten out the mess in YOUR country that you are obviously
here 
in MY country to avoid."

Everyone within hearing distance cheered.





    Eric J 
