Date: Tue, 31 May 2005 19:27:11 -0700 (PDT)
From: Ted Reshetiloff <ted_reshetiloff(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 72 bay heads and gauge cluster free to good home

A buddy of mine was moving and cleaned out his garage.
In it were a pair of used heads from his 72. Part
number on them is 021 101 371 0. I cleaned the
combustion chambers up a little and one head has
cracks by both exhaust valves. The other head I did
not detect any cracks, but it looks like the head may
have been welded to repair cracks. My observation by
no means assures the head is free from cracks. I just
hate to see this stuff thrown out. Both heads appear
to be rebuildable IMHO. Obviously the cracks would
need welding but hey I'm talking free here. The other
thing was the instrument cluster. It is in good shape,
could use some cleaning but has an aftermarket tach in
the clock hole. Don't know if any of it works. Anyway
I'm in Annapolis MD and would really rather not ship
this stuff but I guess I could if someone paid the
cost. I could take a few pix if someone is interested
but my ideal response is "hey I'm interested I'll come
by and pick up the heads" I have gotten a lot of great
stuff over the years from this list and while I am no
longer active on it I would like to help someone out
if I can.  What am I looking for you ask? Well I could
use the leg for my table (78 champagne westy), or a
passenger side rear window. I want to replace the
drivers side one with the vent wing with a solid
window. Duct work for my BA 6 heater... Seriously
though I dont want anything other than to see these
parts not end up in a landfill.

Thanks

Ted Reshetiloff
78' Champagne Westy Possum 
