Date: Sat, 30 Mar 2002 11:38:32 -0800 (PST)
From: William Ray <billymray(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Could I have found THE problem?

Listees,
I know that I have found A problem, but I am not sure
if it is THE problem.  I am in the process of
dismantling a 1972 1700 dual carb'ed engine from my
bus.  It has been sitting on the table in my shop
since September, so my recollection of all of the
reasons for removal and eventual overhaul is a little
fuzzy.  Here is what I remember...

-Frequent backfire, especially when starting and
occasionally when downshifting.

-Loss of power - I was told that the compression was
bad, I don't recall any of the important numbers or
pressure readings from the trip to the mechanic - good
reason to keep a notebook or journal handy I suppose.

-Overheating and some smoking after driving more than
20 miles.

I had two well recommended VW mechanics look at it. 
The first one indicated that the crank case studs may
have been elongated as a result of severe overheating.
 The second one indicated that I needed to replace the
heads.  Neither one of them went any further than
sticking their heads in the engine compartment and
running compression checks.

Well, I finally removed all (most) of the accessories
and the shrouds and I immediately noticed something
wrong.  Keep in mind, I am not a mechanic, this is the
most ambitious mechanical endeavor I have taken.  I
have exposed the four top crank case studs on each
side and two nuts were not secured to the studs.  Both
forward studs did not have the nuts on them.  In fact,
the washers and nuts were laying on the case next to
their respective stud.  Looks like someone forgot to
finish the job during the last re-build.  When I
bought it, the PO informed me that he owned it for
about a year and neither removed nor performed any
major work to the engine.  He claimed that the bus
always ran well for him, but he only took a couple of
trips longer than 50 miles, it was mainly an in-town
vehicle.

Due to my current financial situation, I would like to
not buy new heads unless they are absolutely
necessary.  I would like to put the nuts on the studs
and piece it back together.  Is there a chance that
damage has been done by not having the nuts secured to
the studs?  Can I replace the nuts and call it good? 
Or would I be better off continuing the dismantling to
look for other problems?  At the least I am going to
expose the remaing studs to see if the remaining nuts
are in place, check the torque etc.

Sorry for the long post, but any advice would be
welcomed.  I have been lurking in the list for a
couple of months and all of the posts have given me
the courage to tackle this project.  Thanks in
advance.

Peace,
Billy Ray
'72 Pop-up "Bleu Cheese"
 

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Greetings - send holiday greetings for Easter, Passover
http://greetings.yahoo.com/
