Date: Tue, 22 Mar 2011 11:59:00 -0400
From: Joseph Clark <jsclarkfl(-at-)gmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Music in your bus

I bought one of those cheap amp/EQs from Radio Shack or Parts Express
(e.g. http://www.parts-express.com/pe/showdetl.cfm?Partnumber=265-124)
and wired it to four speakers. I've used a setup like this for years
in VWs and love having the ability to fine-tune a bit better than just
bass/treble controls. 5 or 7 bands are plenty, IMO.

Power for the EQ was tricky because it had switched and unswitched
feeds, and I didn't want it running all the time, so I just put a
toggle switch into the switched line at least that's what I recall
doing). The toggle is located up under the tray forward of the
emergency brake (easiest to locate - I think there was a hole already
there).

EQ itself is mounted under the tray to the *left* of the steering
column so it's almost invisible outside the car (I already have a
gauge panel to the right of the dash pod so that was the best option
anyway). It has a front panel input jack; I run a patch cord from
there behind the speedo pod to where I have one of those vent-mount
ipod holders clipped to the speaker vents in the dash. You can also
just put the ipod on the seat next to you. Nice thing about having the
patch cord is that I can put the ipod within reach when I am sitting
in the back at a campground.

Sound level is fine for around town; on the road the bus is generally
too noisy anyway.

Since my door panels were shot, I made new Westy-style ones of lauan
plywood and put small mid-tweets in the upper forward corner of the
door panels (http://www.flickr.com/photos/jsclark/12415925/). Rear
speakers are mounted in the front panel of the rear bedbox (again,
custom-made so no cutting of original stuff:
http://www.flickr.com/photos/jsclark/12415851) -- you lose some bass
when the bed is set up but that's a minor issue. I like the idea of
just using regular speaker boxes for portability, but these are hardly
in the way, and there's plenty of sound if I want to entertain
everyone at the campsite with my excellent taste in music. :)

I also have a RS am/fm/cassette unit with removable faceplate that I
bought for $5 at a garage sale, feeding into the rear inputs of the
same amp/eq. Sits on the parcel tray under the radio cutout. But I
haven't turned it on in months.

Hope that helps.

Joe Clark
65 vert
65 Neunsitzer
VW Camping Tent Pages: http://tents.wetwesties.org/index.html
