From: "Michael Soultanian" <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 20 Aug 2006 10:22:23 -0700
Subject: AIRS - Clutch went out near SF!

Hey Everyone,
I finally hopped back onto the list.  I've been off for a 
while cuz things got kinda crazy for me so I couldn't do 
much bus stuff, but now I've been forced to do an engine 
drop.  That's not that big of a deal, though.  My dad's 
kinda excited cuz this will be the first time he's seen 
one of them dropped...

So, I was driving south towards SF on my last leg of my 
2.5 week bus trip from Canada (which I will post the blog 
soon), and get caught in uphill traffic.  Then the clutch 
starts getting funky, stops working, smells, and has a 
bunch of freeplay.  Previously, sometimes when I was going 
uphill and pressed the clutch in, it would kind of stutter 
as it seemed like it was still grabbing and pressing and 
releasing the pedal would make it go away.

Anyways, north of the city, I lose my clutch, and had to 
make it to redwood city (south of SF).  I was able to get 
on the freeway and make it through a tollbooth and to my 
parents going all the way around the east bay and into my 
parents garage.  The weird thing is that the clutch did 
not slip at all, yet it smelled horrible (like burning 
clutch smell) the whole drive back.  That kinda boggled 
me.

We're going to drop the engine today and figure out what's 
up.  I'm thinking that I might need a new throwout 
bearing, clutch disk, pressure plate, flywheel, bearing or 
one or all of the above.  Does anyone know of any VW 
suppliers around the SF area for a 78 bus that are open on 
a sunday or just know of any good suppliers in general if 
I need to buy some parts (today or tomorrow).  Also, if 
anyone knows any junkyards (in case it's a junkyardable 
part), that would be helpful as well.

Thanks!
Mike
