From: James Treanor <jtreanor10(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: nathaniel vincent <nates78bus(-at-)gmail.com>, Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Sat, 7 Apr 2007 10:53:35 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Angle Grinder and Door Handle Removal

After reading a couple of posts I thought this might be helpful info which is
based on my personal experience with my favorite tool

Angle grinder attachments and what I use (or mis-use) them forAllways wear
gloves and eye protection with these- no exceptions Heavy wire cup or disk-
removing heavy rust, paint, flesh.  Fine wire cup or disk- paint removal,
follow up rust removal after heavy.  These will polish the metal pretty good
Flap disk- smoothing welds and shaping metal, good for getting tight fits.
Also great for deburring cutsCutting disk- well that's a no-brainerGrinding
disk- shaping thick metal when I have a lot of material to remove I go cheap
on cutting, grinding, and flap disks.  They seem to last nearly as long and
can be 1/3 the price.  Wire disks and cups, get the primo ones.  The cheap
ones are a waste of time.  If they are off balance and make the tool vibrate,
take them back (the ones I get are about 35 bucks apiece).  If you say to heck
with it and keep using it they WILL kill your grinder (the 90 degree gear cant
handle it and will shread). Enjoy.JT Beaufort, SC Running: 1. 62 404.1
Kompressor 2. 58 VW panel 3. 66 sedan 4. 77 transporter 4. 77 westie Resting:
1. 71 transporter 2. 71 single cab 3. 75 Westie 4. 61 doublecab 5. 63
doublecab 6.67 samba 7. 62 Willys wagon
http://www.fortunecity.com/silverstone/garage/7/
_________________________________________________________________
Live Search Maps  find all the local information you need, right when you
need it.
http://maps.live.com/?icid=wlmtag2&FORM=MGAC01
