From: James Treanor <jtreanor10(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: Joshua Patterson <sellwoodvw(-at-)gmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 8 Apr 2007 08:30:53 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Need Helping Hands in Portland, Oregon

> From: sellwoodvw(-at-)gmail.com> > So today I started tearing down the engine, I
am attempting to remove the> head with the engine in the bus (1972).  Why are
you tearing down the engine? If it runs and has good oil pressure and
compression, a tune up, cleaning, and repair of the tins and seals would be a
better bet.  > I also need a torque wrench for this process which I do not
have. Could I> borrow yours.. Also needed would be Jack stands and a jack say
a floor jack. Many parts stores have tool rentals or borrowing programs, but
any I'm familiar with require a deposit equal to the full purchase price new.
A great source for tools is a pawn shop.  It may require some digging but you
can outfit a rudimentary shop at a tenth the price.  > > > My carb (a holly
bugspray) I think, seems to have been broken for a while. I> have no clue if
it was ever working properly. It seems as though only one> barrel has been
firing. Due to the fact that one barrel is blacked with> build up the other is
clean as a whistle. Then I press down on the auto fuel> button and fuel only
shoots into one barrel. The one that is back as night.> > Any ideas on whats
going on with the Carburetor? I would guess that your carb is probably a Weber
32/36 progressive.  They are very common.  Holly also made an exact copy of
this called a 5200 which can be found on Pinto's and Mustang 4 cylinders of
the 70's.  The Bugspray I've heard of, but can't say that I'm familiar with.
If you have a Weber or copy, the throats will be square, one throat will be
smaller than the other, and when you work the throttle, only one barrel will
start to open.  You will probably go thru 80 degrees of rotation of the
throttle shaft before the secondary opens, and will open completely in the
last 20 degrees of throttle shaft rotation.  It will only squirt down one side
(the primary, smaller barrel).  That squirt is to get the ball rolling when
you first step on the gas.I would clean the carb with carb cleaner, wearing
eye protection.  One drop in the eye, and time itself will stand still while
you writhe in pain.  Hope I've made myself clear.  Anyho, clean and reinstall.
Do not disassemble. Clean, straighten, tune, adjust your valves, new valve
cover gaskets and O rings for your pushrod tubes, replace all fuel lines and
buy a fire extinguisher.  If I left somthing out an esteemed colleague will
volunteer the info. Enjoy! JT
_________________________________________________________________
i'm making a difference. Make every IM count for the cause of your choice.
Join Now.
http://clk.atdmt.com/MSN/go/msnnkwme0080000001msn/direct/01/?href=http://im.l
ive.com/messenger/im/home/?source=wlmailtagline
