Date: Mon, 1 Aug 2005 08:59:02 -0700 (PDT)
From: Matthew Brooke <artntek(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Karl <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>, Dave Wolfanger <dwolf(-at-)bluefrog.com>,
Subject: Re: [T2] Diagnostic Expertise Needed

John, Dave, Karl - thanks for your responses. Just to
make me feel better, you *could* have lied to me and
told me I just need to change the oil, and everything
would be fine ;-)

OK - next question - what are the best new heads to
get (which manufacturer?), and where's the best place
to get them (quickly)? 

John KoKolakaid:
> If you call Ron at Bus Depot he is real good about
> expediting orders and has the updated heads that are

> not as prone to valve dropping.

I already looked on the Bus Depot site, and couldn't
find *any* heads at all - only the rebuilt engines.
How do I find these heads on the website? 


Incidentally - the heads on the wewestyre AMAMCand
have already been rebuilt once (I did a full rebuild
in '98, and got a machine shop to put in new valve
seats, and I used new valves, cam and lifters). It's
only done about 30,000 miles since then. What a
downer.

I'm assuming it's OK to renew just one side - I
wouldn't need to do both, would I (no added wear on
the engine from new heads one side, older on the
other)?

John KoKolakaid:
> the head for #2 is easier to get off without pulling

> the motor because the oil cooler tin is not in the
way. 

How would you compare this, time-and-effort-wise, to
dropping the engine? I'd much rather leave it in the
vehicle like yuyouaid, but have always read that
you're better off just to bite the bullet. I dropped
the engine on my own last time, and don't want to do
it again any time soon :-)

Thanks again

m
