From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 19 Sep 2001 11:01:57 EDT
To: cdreike(-at-)earthlink.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Fw: [Fwd: Some countries do remember...]]

Interesting forward.  very true about the US sending aid to other countries 
when disaters strike, it happens regularly.    I still am not sure  buslist 
is the place for these topics.  

In a message dated 9/18/01 9:49:32 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
cdreike(-at-)earthlink.net writes:

<< > > > France
 > > > was in danger of collapsing in 1956, it was the Americans who
 propped it
 > > >
 > > > up, and their reward was to be insulted and swindled on the
 streets of
 > > > Paris. I was there. I saw it.
  >>

I visited Paris a couple times, and everyone was very nice and polite to me.  
 When we broke a wineglass at a cafe (oops) the waiter said don't worry, it 
is good luck.  I also am not actually American though I grew up here.  And I 
can speak French enough to have an exchange of information.  That I believe 
is the crucial thing.   How would you react if French tourists came to your 
town expecting you to talk French to them?  Ya right, as if!   Amazingly many 
people in Germany speak English (making it harder for me to practice my 
German) and the Dutch refuse to let anyone learn Dutch, it is secret, other 
end of the spectrum from French folk.   The Dutch also have good coffee, 
German coffee is blah unfortunately.  Its all which territories they had.   
Reading history of imperialism shows a lot how things became how they are 
today.

  It was actually embarrassing in Europe to see Americans- 90% expected to be 
catered to in the way they live at home in the language they speak at home, 
why travel then? 

Also it is much more international there, Turkish people, Italien, Kenyan etc 
etc etc, all cultures and races walking around.  And the world is closer, not 
isolated on a far continent.   The foreign news shows a much different side 
of US foreign policy than the light it is shown in here, not that many care 
about foreign policy.  Truly,  the USA acts as the big dork and bully of the 
world.  No clue in many people's heads that the USA has been doing things for 
years that piss off a lot of people.  Perhaps that is why the average 
palestinian cheered the terrorist attacks.     The us had been giving/selling 
isreal guns etc for years.     Not friendly of us to the average arab, eh?  
who gets shot?

not that terrorism really solves anything, just a lot of people hurt and 
damage done.  I have always dispised attacks like that.   About 20 Years ago 
my cousin got hit by shrapnel from an IRA bomb waiting for a train in a train 
station, she has walked funny since.  So I hate the IRA.  And terrorism.   So 
wrong to bomb random people.

I hope the USA does not do that.
