Date: Mon, 13 May 2002 23:23:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1700 engine core for sale

Hello list,

I have a 1700 engine core for sale. This is a 1700cc
long block.

This engine did run but it must have a few things for
it to even be put back in service.If it was even going
to be used as a spare, it would have to have new
piston rings, new push rod tube seals, new main seals
and it would have to be cleaned. I pulled the
cylinders off when I removed the heads for inspection.
It was obvious that the piston rings were no good just
from looing at the cylinder walls. I do not have a
piston ring compressor so I am going to remove the
rings when I put the cylinders back on.  

The foolish person that I am, I did not do a
compression test before I assumed that it needed a
rebuild. It leaks oil. From where, I don't know but it
was caked in it. I bought the bus that had this engine
in it about 3 years ago. It was driven home and was
parked. It did run well except it ran VERY rich. I can
now thank the old progressive carb for that. After
have no luck getting it to run right because I didn't
know what i was doing, I wrote it off as needing to be
rebuilt. This longblock would make a good core if you
are buying a rebuilt one. Don't worry, it is not froze
up nor has any catistrofic thing happened to it. It is
just a tired leaky engine that is good for a rebuild.
I am planning on buying a rebuilt 2L from AVP so I
can't use this as my core. I will sell it to the first
person who gives me $25.00. It is located in
Wilmington, NC. I can deliver it up to 50 miles for a
small gas charge if need be. It can also be picked up
as long as you notify me when you are comming. I will
have it ready to be picked up or delivered in no more
than a week if anyone is interested. Please let me
know. Have a good day!

David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
LAUNCH - Your Yahoo! Music Experience
http://launch.yahoo.com
