From: "Mike g." <mike.gensler(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>, <swbusby(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Wed, 24 Nov 2010 23:26:17 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Can I run Weber IDF 44s on a 74 1800cc bus?

Well, I'm probably way out of date and possibly out of line with this since
I'm only a hard-core lurker these days, but having successfully run both
dual 40 and dual 44 IDF's on a 1.8 powered 73 Westy, a 2.0 powered 73 Westy,
a 2.0 powered 914, and even a 1776 powered 58 single-cab with 40 IDF's, I
figure I've got some insight.  Even if it's 15 years out of date.  There are
still a few folks on the list who can attest to my passion for buses and my
strong and inexplicable need for SPEED and POWER and my successful
achievement of it :)

44 IDF's in "as-shipped from the manufacturer" state are absolute cr(-at-)P for a
stock 1.8 or even a 2.0 type IV motor.  The venturi's are too big, the
emulsion tubes are wrong, and the gas jets are flowing too much gas.  The
good news is you can tune them and make them work for your engine and
altitude.  The bad news is you're going to spend $150+ (1995 prices) and
countless days getting them to work right for you.  If you're looking for a
cheap & quick bolt-on fix to replace your ailing stock dual carbs or FI
you're playing ball in the wrong field my friend!

If you've got a pair of 44 IDF's and you're running a stock 2.0 or smaller
you're probably better off finding someone in the 914 world wanting to trade
their 40 IDF's for 44 IDF's because they're building a 2.2 or bigger
performance motor to go racing with.

Dual Webers, when they're in good condition (ie. either new-ish or properly
rebuilt older models), have a GOOD quality linkage (like the Weber X-bar,
not that round or oval-shaped chrome cr(-at-)p they sell in the bling-shops or
god forbid the monkey-action linkage introduced in the late 70's when many
shops started replacing the FI or stock dual-carbs on buses and 914's), and
have been adjusted correctly (ie. proper venturis, emulsion, and jet sizes
for your engine size and altitude) can provide lots of good smooth power,
acceptable fuel economy (16-20 mpg depending on the weight of your right
foot), and very good dependability.  The trick, as with any fuel-delivery
system, is to understand what you have and how to make it work for you.

As a general rule, 44 IDF's will have 34mm venturis which are WAY too big
for a stock 2.0 bus and WAY, WAY too big for a stock 1.8.  Especially in a
bus application where low-end torque is much more important than high-end
horse power.  For a 2.0 bus motor I'd suggest 30MM venturis, but on a 914
2.0 you can get by with 32mm venturis as long as you like to live with your
foot planted to the floor.  For a 1.8 bus I'd think 28mm would be a better
bet, but not sure you can get 28's for IDF 44's.  Either way the 34's that
are probably in there are going to give you very bad throttle response and
will definitely give you very bad gas mileage whether you're driving it like
you stole it or driving it like your grandfather's beloved bus.

Once you've got the main venturis sorted your next problem is the emulsion
tubes that Weber ships with all 40 and 44 IDFs.  There must be a motor out
there that thrives on F11 emulsion tubes (my guess is an early 80's Ford
4-cyl), but it's definitely NOT the right choice for a VW TYPE IV.  Those
tubes will cause you to stumble and flat-spot when transitioning from the
idle jets to the main jets (around 1900-2100 RPM) something fierce.  Anyone
out there running dual Webers that hasn't switched to F7 emulsion tubes is
living in the dark ages.  Swapping out these 4 tubes is the single best
thing you can do for your typeIV motor with dual Webers, but will cost you
$60-70 (again, based on 1995 prices).

Now on to the fine-tuning.  You've downsized your venturis because a stock
typeIV motor just doesn't suck the air that 32 or 34mm vents flows so the
smaller size provides a higher velocity and therefore (for a typeIV motor) a
better delivery of the air/fuel mixture into the widely separated cylinders
that you see every time you gaze wonderingly down upon your motor.  You've
replaced the evil F11 emulsion tubes with F7's so your pour-breathing motor
will have an easier time transitioning from those tiny idle jets onto the
main jets.  And you've got a REAL linkage in place that has allowed you to
balance all 4 throats to within a millimeter of their lives (yes - this is a
whole other story, but one that can be learned and mastered with the right
tools, ear, understanding, and patience).  Now you're finally ready to
adjust your main air and gas jets to match your motor and your altitude.

I can't attest to a 1.8 at whatever altitude you're at, but with a 2.0 at
about 1000 feet above sea level (San Antonio, TX) I found a 125 gas and 185
air jet to be a good combination.  My uneducated guess is that for 1.8 at
0-2500 feet you're probably better off with 115 gas and either 185 or 195
air jets.  Jets are relatively cheap and as you change altitude (2000 foot
increments) you MIGHT want to consider field-swapping the air jets for
bigger as you go higher, but for short jaunts you can just live with the
lean-running conditions.

David Schwarze had a good point about noise, but noise is relative (ask him
about his drag-strip experience in his Mustang!)  Personally I LIKED the
sound of the dual Webers firing into life in the back of my 73 muffled under
the access panel and the 4-inch thick foam bed in my 73 Westy, but have to
say I got tired of it in my 914 (especially when I didn't have the rear
glass in place).  But everyone's' tastes are unto themselves and you have to
figure out what makes your own world spin :)

Anyway, like I said at the start, I'm probably way out of date and possibly
way off base here, but when you're dealing with 30-40 year old motors maybe
some things don't change so much.

Mike g.
Former owner 73 Westy (w/5-sp tranny, capable of 100+ and guaranteed to put
grins on your face)
Former owner 58 single cab - Zorn
Still owner 74 914 2.0 and autocross giant-slayer :)
