From: "matt borbonus" <farmerbuggyman(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Fri, 12 Oct 2001 22:38:49 
Subject: I want...

Howdy all, please, take time to read the WHOLE thing ;p

    Hi from PSU, state college, PA.  (I am an ag major, not a football
fan!), anyways.  before I get started, I saw a nice type 3 today, and about 
15 different type ones, and two type twos, and 2 buggies since I got here at 
the beginning of this semester.  I am in VW heaven compared to about 2 hours 
west of here, which is where I'm from.

Now, down to bussiness:

     I am looking for any splitwindow truck.  If it falls under that 
catagory, I "want" one.  I am looking for one, that runs, and is
inspected/inspectable, with good brakes, and hopefully good heat, but heat 
is and added bonus.  I would like the body to be fairly good as well, (I 
dont care if it is painted, or what color...) but hey, I cant have 
everything...

     Why do I want a split pickup?  Well, one reason, I LOVE VWS!, and since 
I am not needing a pickup for "major jobs", like I would if I was at home 
running our farm "full time", (if I wasnt in school), a VW truck will 
suffice for my needs for now.  Another "reason" is that, most of my "ag" 
collegues, have "american" pickups, and even though I am a chevy man first, 
It would just be beyond cool to look down the line of old chevies and fords, 
and see the butt of a type 2 stickin out!  I mean, you can already tell 
which car is mine, either the brown rabbit, or the baby blue 67 type 1!... 
(I wear a different VW shirt every other day.., and, you should see my 
dorm!)  (I feel almost sorry for my roommate...  almost!)

     Now, the catch of the deal, I have no money, or for very limited time 
frames, small amounts of money.  So, how do I obtain a bus, if someone knows 
of one?  Well, I have one of three things, or a combonation of either two, 
to "trade" (everybody loves trade, right?), here they are,

1,  my 1965 Ford Galaxie 500 conv:

over 100,000 miles, drives around very well, many new parts, etc, absolutly 
no putty, or pit-rust.  needs carpet, top (the big $$$ eater) and a finished 
paint job (its in primer).  It was "appraised" at like $5000, but I only 
have $1400 in it, so I would say its worth (to me) $1500 or slightly less, 
(or more if you wanna pay more!!!), I have a huge amount of details on it if 
anyone is interested,  pics available...  has title, and all kinds of parts 
(mainly trim)

2,  my 1986 (?) 10th year limited edition Honda 750 street bike, with sport 
exhaust, and a free helmet.  has title, and new charging equipment, as of 
last year, but hasnt been run since then (hey, between the farm and school, 
its rough...).  It does run though, and I would price it at $900-$1100, and 
I have some books on it

and 3, is my 81 VW diesel rabbit.  I dont really want to trade it, but I 
might.  Its body is fair, the floors are "ok", its interior is nice, but 
faded, and the headliner is gone.  New clutch, gloplugs, and injectors.  New 
front shocks, and new front tires.  and some other stuff.  it is inspected, 
(I' m driving it presentlly).

note: I would trade the rabbit on an equal value rabbit pickup with a cap, 
if anyone is interested, (diesel)

if anyone is somwwhat interested, I will gladly send more info, or answer 
any questions, pics are available of each, upon request.

ps, I have a 66 (has three windows on each side, and is a walk through)
parts bus that goes with any trade...  the body is extreamlly straight and 
solid...  from knee hieght up!, the whole front nose is still good and 
straight, the headliner is good, and all windows in place, and they arent 
busted, no seats or engine, but I have some engines that are rebuildable, 
the frame and front suspension are fair, but probablly need repair, and the 
viability of the transmission is unknown,

thanks to all, and if any one knows where there is a nice running,
inspected/inspectable type two (single or double cab) truck, for $1200 or 
less, that would be good info to know too.

I would welcome any location in the US, but the closer ou get to PA, the 
better...

thanks a million...  (I am NOT going to beat the truck, I will restore it 
eventually, I take very good care of all my vws, and the second one of four 
is in restoration presentlly)

Thanks,
Matt in PA,   www.personal.psu.edu/mgb145  (go to links, and look around)  I 
know there isnt much there, but still, waste some time, have some fun...



_________________________________________________________________
Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com/intl.asp

