From: "Mick McQuilton" <whoajesus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Thu, 23 May 2002 12:09:36 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Roadtrippin' with the '71: valve surprises, "the lurch" ...

>You set them open because they close when hot.

Could be. This is one of those areas where info is sketchy and I honestly 
couldn't tell you with any certainty, but my ears tell me the gap is 
increasing as the engine warms, as valve/tappet noise increases after a few 
minutes. I think the idea of .006 was to allow for the drivers who only 
adjusted their valves every 12,000 (or never, and there were plenty who 
didn't), because the bit of extra space would allow the valve to stretch 
more before any appreciable gas loss began. Muir also notes that his cars 
with valves that were adjusted warm at the dealer measured tighter than .006 
when they cooled.

These were new Brazilian dual-port heads. They have 20,000 miles on them and 
all the valves have been holding their adjustment very nicely except #3-E. 
It's either stretching or the seat is receding in the head, or probably 
both. It also is a bit noisy regardless of the adjustment which leads me to 
think it may have worn its guide (although oil consumption in this motor is 
very low, about a quart every 2,000 miles ... so that noise may even be a 
loose seat). Either way, I fully expect this valve to be lunch for the 
piston within 10-15,000 miles, so I'm planning the head job. It's just a 
matter of getting the comp. test done so I know whether it's going to be 
now, or in a few months, or next spring.

Incidentally, it tightened up very little for the first 15,000 miles, about 
.001 at each adjustment, not even cause for concern in my opinion. But it 
you have a consistently tight valve, keep a close eye on it because at some 
point it will start stretching faster ... and if it's completely closing the 
gap within a single valve adjustment interval, as mine did, I think that's 
trouble.

It's interesting to note that this happened on a long, hot road trip near 
sea level. I live at 8,000 feet and this engine is used to a rich mixture 
and low compression/combustion temps, all of which changed when I got it to 
sea level. The spark plug tells me that #3 has been running hotter than the 
others since the engine was new, though why that is I have no idea, so I'm 
sure it was pushing the limits down at sea level, where the mixture is 
leaner (hotter) and the compression higher (hotter).

Keep us posted.

Thanks,
Mick McQuilton
Aspen, CO 1971 Campmobile "Luna"


_________________________________________________________________
Join the world’s largest e-mail service with MSN Hotmail. 
http://www.hotmail.com

