From: "Adrian Pillow" <apillow(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com
Date: Mon, 27 Jan 2003 17:12:11 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Wasserboxer conversion versus aftermarket type 1

Good points George.

I am a huge cheapskate in a lot of ways.  So I agree that it might be 
possible to get the WBX spacing down to fit a T1 head w/o the machine work.

First I plan on using 10mm to 8mm regular case savers so that elliminates a 
little room right there.  The standard head studs are like the T4 when it is 
10mm mounting threads but a stepped down 8mm shaft.  Then drill out the 
heads for the stud holes.  I bought a fresh set of drill press bits this 
weekend to try out on a junk head :)  The toughest part might be spot facing 
the head stud hole "lips" so the washer fits flush.  I believe the cylinders 
themselves will slide right on the 8mm studs will no problem, but need to 
verify.  The cyliders would be easy to trim out anyway.

As for the "S curve" part, yes they can flex a little but at the same time 
do not want to snap them under load.  Not sure of the long term effects 
here.

As for the oil cooling.  A big issue for sure when adding displacement.  I 
plan on running a sandwitch adapter off the oil filter boss with a built in 
thermostat so it only opens for the Doghouse oil cooler when needed.  Then 
still tap and full flow the case and run an RX-7 mondo oil cooler (built in 
t-stat) under the cargo floor (probably 10AN lines).  So that will more than 
elliminate oil heat and will facilitate a fast warm up to 180 like in a 911 
oil flow design (note I will not bother with an air t-stat, but keep the 
direction fins in the shroud).

As for the heads cooling.  Again use the directional fins.  A late FI Beetle 
shroud with the air horn for better flow.  And the most helpful thing will 
be lowish compression ratio, 7:1-7.5:1 (closer to Berg recommendation than 
The Fast And The Furious hype).  Of course run a CHT gauge.  But yes this 
will be the hardest part of the conversion.  But then again any 2.1L will 
face the same head cooling issues so I am sure it can be licked.  Again I 
will try to gain knowledge from what Berg does as in my opinion he is the 
big motor longevity champ.  Especially with todays poor gas it is important 
to keep low CRs now more than ever.

More to come...

Again there is a whole forum for WBX and Oxy-Boxer on www.shoptalkforums.com 
that can help as well.  Granted there are very few T5 conversions out there 
to bounce ideas against.

Take Care,
Adrian





_________________________________________________________________
Tired of spam? Get advanced junk mail protection with MSN 8. 
http://join.msn.com/?page=features/junkmail
