Date: Fri, 26 Apr 2002 19:50:02 -0700 (PDT)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The last straw, AVP Long block, engine removal and parts for sale soon.

Hello List,

Well it's still Friday so I thought I would post my
what I did to my bus today. Well I have finially come
to the realization that I neither have the time or
money to rebuild my 1700cc engine myself, so I am
saving toward an AVP engine. I did not feel this way
yesterday. I had finished clean my newly bead blasted
head and was getting ready to send it off to get it
step cut. This head looked good with the exception of
needing new valve guides. The valve seats even looked
great. Everything was pointing toward an easy rebuild
until today. I took the other head off and took it to
my engine classs to clean and bead blast it. Upon
inspection I found that there were signs of light
cracking around each valve seat. One side of this head
look like someone had droped a nut in the cyllinder.
The area around the valve seats looked like hamburger.
A closer inspection of the cyllinder showed that one
cylinder had rust in it, two had oil residue and oil
staining past the piston rings and the last one looked
like it had been diped in oil. Besides that, oil seems
to be leaking from every seam on the engine. Any way,
to save time and money I am going to go with AVP. I
will put the old engine back together and save my
money. On a positive note, by the time I finish the
body work to the bus I should have enough money to buy
a rebuilt longblock. 

On another note, I did take my engine out for the
first time today. It is not as scary as I feared. I 

will probably post some items for sale that I have
collected for my rebuild. Stay tuned for a set of
Porsch 911/914/type IV sodium exhaust valves, 1.7L
reconditioned rods, a set of goteeze piston rings, and
a few other parts. I will give the details in a few
days.

Have a great day!
David Kelly

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Health - your guide to health and wellness
http://health.yahoo.com
