Date: Sat, 18 Aug 2007 10:01:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: Rick <rickair7777(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] VDO Oil Temp Guages

For future reference, there is a central ground
connector with several blade connectors on the top of
the block under the intake manifold...I think there's
a free connector, or you could add an 2-to-1 adapter.
This connector should be clean and corrosion free, or
your FI system is likely to have issues.

The VDO sensor is NPT, which means the thread is
tapered like a cone...it should fit snugly without
sealant...but do NOT overtighten it, it will crack the
block! Hand tight or SLIGHTLY tighter should work
fine.

When I installed the first of my gauges, I ran a
bundle of 5-6 wires from the engine bay up to the
cab...not too hard using the existing holes in the
frame, just drilled a new hole near the speedo drive
cable to enter the cab.  Wrapped in wire loom, secured
with zip-ties.  This has come in real handy for
additional gauges, troubleshooting, and a security
lockout switch.



<SNIP>
OK, now I swear never to besmirch VDO oil temp guages
again.  We've known for a while that the problem is
grounding.  The problem is that I couldn't get a good
one without running a ground wire straight to the
sensor.  Then I had no good way of attaching it.  I
finally found a solution.  Backed the sensor out about
a quarter turn, stripped about an inch off the end of
the ground wire, wrapped it around the sensor, and
tightened it back down.  Now I get good, stable
readings and the light comes on when I turn on the
headlights rather than the needle just jumping around
like crazy.  And it doesn't leak oil.  

The real problem is that I waited to read the
directions until it didn't work.  It said not to use
thread sealer as it keeps it from making a good
ground.   If you do it right you don't need a separate
ground wire.



Rick
"Pumpkin II"
Stock FI '77 Westy
CA Smog Stuff
