Date: Fri, 20 Dec 2002 17:03:38 +0000 (GMT)
From: =?iso-8859-1?q?Nigel=20Skeet?= <naskeet(-at-)yahoo.co.uk>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Matching 1968~79 VW Type 2, Hella 3-position fog lamp switch

From: Nigel A. Skeet, Essex, Great Britain
To: Gary B. Watts, Duvall, Washington, USA.
Date: 20th December 2002
Reply to: naskeet(-at-)hotmail.com  OR  naskeet(-at-)yahoo.co.uk

*******************************************************

GARY B. WATTS SAID:

Date: Fri, 29 Nov 2002 17:58:04 -0800
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Gary Watts <garyb(-at-)fatmedia.com>
Subject: knobs, knobs, and more knobs

I'm going to be installing some fog lights on my
westie this weekend since for the past three weeks
I've been able to barely see in the morning, and of
course it comes back before I head home from work. Are
there any manufacturers out there that make switches
that look like the original knobs on my 77 dash? The
lights came with a lighted rocker switch, but I want
to "blend it in" on the dash.

Sluggo
Duvall, WA 

*******************************************************

Dear Gary.

I was interested to note your recent posting in the
type2.com digest, enquiring about a switch for fog
lights, with a knob matching those of the existing
switches, in your 1977 VW Type 2 Westfalia campervan.

In my old 1975 Hella catalogue, there is such a switch
illustrated, with illuminated green warning light
lens, but whether it is still obtainable, I do not
know. There are three switch positions; these being,
(1) rear fog lights, (2) front fog lights, and (3)
front & rear fog lights simultaneously.

The Hella part number is 6RE 001 596-001.

Back in the late 1970s, when I wanted to find a
matching dashboard switch, with integral warning
light, for the Minnow Fish carburettor, 90W electric
de-icing element relay, fitted to my family's 1973 VW
1600 Type 2 Westfalia Continental. Such switches were
very expensive new, so I used a heated rear window
switch, salvaged from a VW Type 4 (i.e. VW 411 & 412).

I disliked the non-matching switch knobs, so I
replaced the remaining VW Type 2 knobs (shaped like a
dimpled, truncated cone), with those of the VW Type 1,
3 & 4 pattern (shaped like a stepped, truncated cone),
which were then more readily available in breakers'
yards. Ironically, the latch-knob of my recently
acquired, second-hand VW Type 2 glove-box cover, is
also of the VW Type 1, 3 & 4 pattern, so everything
matches quite nicely!

Recently, I've been further upgrading the vehicle,
making provision for front & rear fog lights, plus
auxiliary driving lights, for which I have again used
second-hand VW Type 4, heated rear window switches,
albeit with homemade warning-light lenses, made from
yellow, orange and blue translucent acrylic plastic
sheet.

What types of front and rear fog lights are you
fitting?

USEFUL ADDRESSES

Hella Manufacturing Ltd., Wildmere Industrial Estate,
Banbury, Oxfordshire, OX16 7JU, Great Britain.
Tel. (UK) 01 295 - 272 211	Tel. (International) +44
1295 272 211
Fax. (UK) 01 295 - 278 025	Fax. (International) +44
1295 278 025

Hella Inc., 201 Kelly Drive, Peachtree City, Georgia,
GA 90269, USA.
Tel. (USA) 404 631 7500		Tel. (International) +1 404
631 7500

You might be interested to read the following extract,
from the draft of my comprehensive technical article
cum book chapter, entitled, "Improving Vision,
Visibility and Lighting Performance, for Air-Cooled
Volkswagens and Other Models".

FRONT & REAR FOG LIGHTS

On our way home from Southern France, late one
afternoon, at the end of our summer holiday in 1981,
we encountered thick fog, in which visibility, was
typically 50 to 200 metres. There was nowhere safe to
pull off the road, so I just continued driving, with
dipped headlights (not having special foglights), at
no more than 30 MPH, for several more hours, until I
came across a huge expanse of gravel, by the side of
the road. During our passage through the fog, a large
number of oncoming French cars, flashed their yellow
headlamps at me. Whether they were merely indicating
their disgust, at our foreign, white H4 headlamps, or
were actually dazzled by them, I don't know.

It was not practical to use Lucas, clip-on, 7 inch,
circular, yellow, plastic beam converters, in
conjunction with 1968~73 VW Type 2 headlamps, so I had
simply blanked off, the asymmetric dipped-beam
refraction section, of the glass lenses, using black
electrical insulating tape, which was the recommended
alternative, for Continental touring. It is now
possible to obtain self-adhesive beam converters
(either colourless or yellow) which fit over the
refraction section, but ideally, one would substitute
a set of Continental dipping headlamps, when touring
overseas.

I had found when passing through regions of thick fog,
that even the dipped headlights, were causing
reflected glare (inhibiting visibility) and the normal
tail lights, of cars I was following, became virtually
invisible, just a short distance in front. In light of
my experience with the fog, I suggested to my father,
that we fit front and rear accessory foglamps, but he
has never been keen on the idea, so it was not until
recently, that he consented to any being fitted. Apart
from mountain mist, when we drove over the Arlberg
pass (as a picturesque alternative, to the 14 km long
toll road-tunnel), in western Austria, during summer
1985, on our way to Hungary, we have never since
encountered fog, whilst driving the van.

In contrast, I frequently encountered extremely foggy
conditions, in Bedfordshire, England, circa February
and November, when driving my Triumph Toledo, during
my postgraduate engineering studies at Cranfield, from
October 1980 to May 1984. I thus fitted below the
front bumper, a matched pair, of 7 inch, Lucas 20-20,
homofocal, rally fog lamps (with standard H3 55W
quartz halogen bulbs), which were to prove
indispensible, over the next few years.

Introduced in 1980, accompanied by rave reviews from
the motoring press (see "A British lamp to beat the
World", Motor, 8th November 1980), comparing them with
well known, rival products from Bosch, Hella, Cibie
(Cibie & Marishal are both part of Valeo) and Wipac, I
found that my Lucas 20-20 fog lamps, gave kerb to
kerb, lateral illumination, from 5 metres in front of
the car and projected a flat horizontal beam (with
sharp horizontal cut-off), over a distance of at least
100 metres; even in quite thick fog, with virtually no
reflected glare.

The advantages of good quality fog lamps, are
particularly noticeable at night, of which I had a
graphic demonstration, on my way home one evening, as
I approached a large roundabout. A car, using dipped
headlamps, some distance in front of me, struck the
offside kerb of the roundabout, which together with
the roundabout nearside kerb, I could clearly see at
that moment, with the aid of my fog lamps. Being
night-time, there was no scattering of sunlight by the
fog, which would otherwise increase the opacity of
thick fog!

Making provision for trailer rear fog-lamps, proved to
be the perfect excuse, to fit rear fog-lamps to the
van; my father having previously been far from keen.
After a seemingly endless quest, I finally obtained a
matching pair, of second-hand, rear fog-lamps (the
list price of new lamps, being circa #40 each), from a
scrapped Toyota Corolla saloon (i.e. sedan), which
recess into the flat, vertical portions, of the
engine-compartment hatch, on either side of the rear
number plate (i.e. licence plate), giving an almost
factory fitted appearance. If the 12V, 20W quartz
halogen bulb (Hella part No. 8GH 002 473-121), is of
the appropriate bulb-fitting type (i.e. BA15s bayonet
fitting), this could be substituted for the
conventional 21W bulb.

In order to fit these lamps to the engine-compartment
hatch, it was necessary to rotate the lamps through 90
degrees, so that the longest dimension was vertical.
The optimum light distribution (i.e. maximum
visibility), was obtained by orientating the
lamp-lens, so that the edge labelled "TOP", is
outboard (i.e. towards the side of the vehicle). Ease
of wiring connection is achieved by positioning the
bulb holders at the top. The British Road-Vehicle
Lighting Regulations specify minimum requirements re
angular zones of visibility for rear fog lamps and
aspects of their position on the vehicle, which must
be no less than 100 mm (i.e. 4 inches), from the
closest edge of the brake lights.

Rear fog lamps, of the pattern (about 150mm x 65mm x
10mm lens size) used on the Toyota Corolla estate
(i.e. station wagon), Liteace van and Landcruiser 4x4,
would probably have resulted in an even neater
installation, but alas none were available. Other
possible donor vehicles, of potentially suitable rear
fog lights, include the Daewoo Lusso 4x4, Syangyong
4x4 (Far Eastern vehicle with Mercedes engine!) and
Fiat 130 or 131 Mirafiori estate. This Fiat model,
dates from the period when Italian mass-production
cars were notorious for corrosion problems, so most
were probably scrapped long ago!

Regards.

               Nigel A. Skeet
Everything you'll ever need on one web page
from News and Sport to Email and Music Charts
http://uk.my.yahoo.com
