Date: Tue, 26 Nov 2002 02:30:47 -0800 (PST)
From: Aubrey Allen <notorious_a_u_b_(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: keeping the engine lid but will a turbo run too hot?

     Just to let you guys know I have a lot of spare
time and have been reading the vw magazines.  I
happened to brake my neck during a week of activities.
 about five intense activities all with extreme neck
pain resulting in 70% paralyzed from the neck down.  I
had a surgery that ended up fusing my C5 and C6
vertabraes.  I can't work till June and can't ride in
a vehicle until January except for Doctors
appointments.
     I think I have enough book knowledge to try to
build my first engine.  I wanted to make a stout 1641,
1776, no bigger than 1835, but with the new turbo
kturbo cityurbocity.  Do you think I can keep it cool
enough in a bus engine compartment.  It seemed I could
make the power of some of those 2500 something
engines, but cheaper and last longer.  I would spend
my time researching and build the engine around the
turbo.  Not just build the regular 1641 and bolt it
on, but have first the cam for best results, heads for
the turbo, and then worry about the crank and piston
size.  Then spend a whole bunch of time making sure
the engine was perfect during my rehabilitation.  Then
concentrate on body work and the transaxle.  Then once
I'm cleared to start twisting around restore all the
little things on my Double Cab aka Dozer.  Then I can
have it restored by xmas 20Basically    Basiclly will
this create too much heat inside the engine bay with
good seals, and no traffic.  It would not be my daily
driver, but sdrivingr and drving to the beach, or
short trips.

=====
The Notorious A.U.B.
  a.k.a. The Aubb Dogg
Loving this California Life.
