Date: Sun, 2 May 2004 16:00:04 -0400
To: The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com, ev_update(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
From: ncbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Buses Accros the Border!

The US/Canadian Border, that is!

Buses of the Corn http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn/

For six years, an ever growing group of Canadians has crossed the 
border into the U.S.  and driven hundreds of miles to attend 
EveryBus.  As a group and as individuals they are wonderful people 
who love to camp and love VWs.  Greg Potts of Scarborough, ON has 
been to almost all of the EBs and a few years ago started his own VW 
Transporter Camping Event, Buses of the Corn. BOTC 2004 is going to 
be a really nice VW Transporter Family Camping event!!!!

This  August marks the 4th BOTC and after a few years of false starts 
this is the year that we are going to make it.  To date, the plan is 
to leave Greensboro,NC on 8.4.04 and drive to Harpers Ferry, WV to 
meet up with the Auch family. The next day we will proceed north 
through PA to Buffalo, NY and cross the border. and drive the 
remainder of the way to Whitby, ON for BOTC.  After several days of 
fun we will make the return trip home.

I would like to extend an invitation ( challenge ) for anyone with a 
VW Transporter (split, baywindow, Vanagon, Eurovan ) to either join 
the the Auch/Cybulski carabus or set out on your own to meet us in 
Canada for a wonderful weekend of camping and VWs.

If you are interested please let me know. For more info on BOTC visit 
the web site or contact Greg Potts at Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca.

If you cannot make BOTC please check out BusFusion in Almonte, ON 
which looks like a lot of fun too. If I had the cash I would do both. 
Info on BusFusion is located at 
http://members.aol.com/BusFusion/bfhome.htm

Thanks
Chris
www.everybus.com
