Date: Tue, 27 Apr 2004 10:01:15 -0500
To: Rick Taylor <busbarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus AC option

At 09:15 PM 4/26/2004, Rick Taylor wrote:

>I would like to AC a couple busses, one is a '76 westy, the other a '63
>standard.  A full blown system is expensive, parts will be around $2,000.

That seems a bit high.  If you look around and buy used parts it should be 
well under $1k for both busses.

>We pull a small camper called a Scamp with the '76 westy currently, but will
>use the '63 standard after conversion to diesel power.

You're going to convert a '63 to diesel and you're worried about the cost 
of A/C parts?!?  :-)

>These new small units are pretty efficient and inexpensive.  I was looking
>at Sam's the other day and they have 12,000 BTU units that pull only 1,280
>watts no kidding and for only $240.

No comprende - 12,000 BTU is a LARGE unit in my neck of the woods.  And 
*only* 1280 watts?  My 5000BTU window unit only pulls about 500 watts!  And 
it is plenty to cool a bus.

>To power the ac unit, I was thinking of this:
>http://www.donrowe.com/inverters/aims_2500.html

See where it says, "modified sine wave"?  That will not work for things 
with compressors, like refrigerators and air conditioners.  You need a true 
sine-wave inverter to run an air conditioner and they are BIG BUCKS.

>I'm sure an extra alternator will need to be added to the engine (like in
>the ambulance) and an extra battery as well for peak draw.

Not saying it absolutely won't work, but it's generally not practical.  To 
have any chance at success, you should get the smallest air conditioner you 
can find - one like my 5,000BTU suitcase model.  Then replace the A/C fan 
motor with a 12V D/C motor to reduce the 110V current draw.  Then get a 
dedicated sine-wave inverter that is just big enough to power the A/C 
compressor - say 400 watts.  Next, a bank of surplus Hawker AGM batteries 
(about 200lbs worth) and a good, high-output auxiliary alternator, 100 amps 
or more.  That might allow you to run the A/C for 6-8 hours between recharges.

-David
