Date: Wed, 28 Apr 2004 15:16:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: Dave <kd5fvm(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Rick Taylor <busbarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: crazy idea #472..was Bus AC option

 ok... I know were beatin a dead horse here... this
thread seems to always start bout this time of
year.... but... 
 Heres what we started... guess this should start off
it aint goin in the SC, its being fitted for the 78
Westy, but could be converted real easy. When campin,
we like to take 2 very large dry boxes, and a small
trailer for the motorcycle... yes the bus is big
enough, but still cramped with all that gear and 4
passengers... so we started makin a big brush guard
for the front of the bus... itll bolt to the frame...
but itll be approx 20 inches deep. But heres the
kicker... the dry box will set to one side, generator
in the middle, window a/c unit to the far
side...headlights will clear everything, and of course
the driving lights will be mounted to the brush
guard... just have to figure out how to pipe the
ducting in/out of the bus... that should be a no
brainer... you can have a/c anytime you want...
well... gas is required... done tested the 5000w
Continental gen on the a/c unit... nice cold air...
same for the back... build a little porch with a ramp
to the side to pull the bike up on... and even with
that loaded, still have sum extra space for outside
storage... still need to lift the bus bout 6 inches,
but gonna wait till all is fitted...
 As far as the gen, its gonna be rubber mounted so
vibration is at a minimum, and run an extra muffler
for those quite campouts....
 just another option to ponder over....
Dave
62 SC the truck
78 Westy the dead dudes bus
