Date: Tue, 19 Nov 2002 17:04:57 -0800 (PST)
From: "Nemo, Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] I'll throw in my dizzy question too - 050 009 etc.  

I'm sure most of you know this, but just for sake
of clarity, understand that 050 means two
different things.

At Bus Depot or any place where you might be
inclined to buy a NEW distributor, it is a
centrifugal advance dizzy not much different than
a 009.  All the evils of the 009 are inherent in
the 050, though the 050 has a little more advance
and is probably somewhat more appropriate for a
bus than a 009.  Here is some 050 centrifugal
advance dizzy info from the library:   
http://www.type2.com/library/electrip/050rev.htm

I give John at aircooled.net a big amen on his
last post regarding centrifugal dizzies in a bus.
 Hoover, may he reigh forever, also agrees: 
http://www.type2.com/library/electrip/advance.htm

The second type of dizzy that some people refer
as "050" is the later bus stock dizzies.  The
bosch part number for these also ends in 050, but
it is a stock application, while the centrifugal
050 on the shelf at Bus Depot and else where was
never stock on a VW to my knowledge.  These stock
"050" dizzies are advanced by BOTH vacuum and
engine speed (centrifugal advance) and are called
DUAL ADVANCE.  (Some have only advance, and are
SINGLE VACUUM DUAL ADVANCE, while some have both
advance and retard and are SINGLE VACUUM DUAL
ADVANCE.)  These factory "050" dizzies have part
numbers "205-X."  This factory equipment, dual
advance "050" is described here:
http://www.type2.com/library/electrip/dist050.htm.

For what it's worth, I think that most people
mean the aftermarket centrifugal only dizzy when
referring to 050.  That is definitely the case
with bug folks.  IMHO we should refer to the
stock dizzies as "205's."  

Notice that the aftermarket 050 has far less
total advance than a stock 205.  This will
obviously require you to alter the fuel system or
have face driveability issues.  IMHO, if you
cannot find a rebuilt bus factory 205 dizzy, you
are better off with a rebuilt late bug
dizzy--which are cheap and available-- than with
a new 009/050 centrifugal only.  Of course,
aircooled.net offers rebuilt factory 205's and
there "SVDA" dizzies.  




=====
Peace and blessings, 
Nemo, the Busless Captain

http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain/index.html
