Date: Wed, 27 Mar 2002 16:07:47 -0800 (PST)
From: ovalwindow <ovalwindow(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Vintage Bus List <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: SO23 purchase update

howdy volks,

well, after much internal/external debate - a fair
amount of haggling, etc., i made the plunge.  i now
own a splitty - after lusting after them - and chasing
after many of them - over the last 10+ years....

i took some pix, i'll post them to a site and throw
out the link when i get them scanned.  (it will be a
while i'm sure....)

i'm sure i'll have some questions when i finally take
delivery, although that's going to be a couple of
months due to a recent move on my part.

turns out the bus has the port-a-potty, which was kind
of cool.  it also has the original fabric wrap-around
section & bar for the back of the front seat.  (when
in child's cot mode...)  there's a complete tent, tent
bag, pole bag, and pole set.  turns out that it was
previously equipped w/ the rear webbing - as the hooks
are still there.  (no webbing though! :-(  two other
cool things - it still has the original floor covering
in the camper section, and also has the original front
seat covering underneath the recovering.
 
i talked the seller down to $8500, but he got to keep
the roof rack.  not a great deal - but i don't think
it's a bad deal either given the overall condition of
the bus.  the cabinets look gorgous, and if the roof
paneling is refinishable (and i actually refinish it)
-the interior will look pretty damned good.  having
looked at a LOT of split-windows over the past 10-15
years around the midwest - i feel pretty good about
what i've got and what it took to get it.  (as a side
- for the "he paid too much for it" crowd - i lived in
a bus and a vanagon from nov. 1st of last year until
this past weekend, when i moved into a place here in
indianapolis.  this was due to a variety of reasons,
which i won't go into here.  but i'd just like to
illustrate that i'm not made out of money, as a few of
the replys to my earlier post seemed to imply....)

i wrote down the m-codes, etc. when i bought it - but
they're lost in a pile of paperwork from the move.

a couple preliminary stupid questions for those that
would care to reply:

did this bus have a belly pan?

did it have to have a rear view mirror?  (there are NO
holes for one - mcode shows a US import tho.....)

elephant ear outside mirrors are NOT correct, right?

peace, ~j.
one unnamed '60 so23 and a bunch of other v-dubs
from which the following is MIA:
roof rack
3 shot glasses
4 glasses
rear webbing
rear curtains
owner's manual
(more will be revealed i'm sure!)

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Movies - coverage of the 74th Academy Awards®
http://movies.yahoo.com/
