Date: Wed, 27 Mar 2002 20:26:19 -0500
From: david f martin <dfmartin(-at-)mindspring.com>
To: burning.girl(-at-)telus.net, VintageBus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] carb jetting - new concept for me ??

Hello Diana,

Start with simple things first. Your jets *might* be off, but other
reasons for running hot are more likely...

You have to have all of your engine tin, and your seals should be in
good shape. Do the tuneup routine...

Can you push your bus on level ground?  If not, check your brakes. Are
your tires wearing evenly? If not, you need an alignment. Same problem
as above, at high speed.

Check your points gap (0.16 in.), *then* timing. Your maximum advance
should be no more than 30 degrees. More than that will make your engine
run hot. 

If your engine is running too lean (too much air in the mixture), your
engine will run hot. Vacuum leaks are a common cause, but jets can cause
this, too.

Get a can of brake cleaner spray for your toolbox. Make sure it is the
flammable kind (the other kind won't work). This stuff is usually safe
on paint (like on your engine tin). Spray small amounts around the base
of your carb, the intake boots, anywhere your intake or carb might allow
air. Your idle will change if you have a vacuum leak, and a vacuum leak
will make your engine run hot... (Some folks say to use carb cleaner,
but if you're not careful with it, it will eat the paint from your fan
shroud)...

AFTER you've checked all this stuff, drive your bus till it gets hot,
then pull over, shut off the ignition quickly, and pull one of your
spark plugs. If the electrodes look very whitish, you're still running
too lean, which might mean a clogged jet.

You could buy a set of jet gauges, if you're likely to make good use of
them (I'm a VW mechanic, and I haven't yet justified the cost. When I'm
playing with jet sizes, which is *very* occasionally, I borrow a set
from someone else). A new couple of jets don't cost very much, and is
worth a try after other possible problems have already been ruled out.

david f martin
'67 westy
-- 
   _______
  /_______\
 ||   |   ||
()|___|___|()
 |o \ (-at-) / o|
 |( )\ /( )|
 |____V____|
(___________)
 [_]     [_]
