From: "Adrian Pillow" <apillow(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com, VintagVW(-at-)listproc.sjsu.edu
Date: Tue, 10 Dec 2002 11:34:38 -0500
Subject: FS '67 Sundail solid driver

Well the person who was buying the '67 got cold feet (long story) so she is 
back on the market.

It is a solid original Alabama/Georgia bus (still has dealer tag/plate) that 
is either a real Sundial or close Sun-fakia based off a Standard body.  No 
pop-top.

Here are some of the details, but not all so shoot me an e-mail and we can 
discuss in goory detail if you would like.

The Good:

- Fresh rebuilt engine by me.  First cut AE case.  KS bearings and German 
seals.  Dual port with 34PICT-3 and 009 (I do not have a matching vacuum 
dizzy sitting around to make it correct).  Oil bath air intake system.  
Broken in and ready to go, about 5 neighborhood miles on her.  New pressure 
plate and clutch disc as well.

- New rear passenger corner and battery tray from Ronnie at OldVolks.

- New brake wheel cylinders. Good shoes so they stayed.  Baywindow dual 
circuit MC conversion, using Eric&Barb's method.

- New window seals from Ronnie.

- New repo taillight bucket assemblies from BusBoys.

- New Drivers side repo elephant ear mirror.  No mirror on the passenger 
side.

- Virgin front nose.  With a very nice chrome original "VW" sign on it.

- Deluxe trim all around.

- Window latches and all that are in perfect shape which is rare to find.

- New tires and painted 14" wheels.  New repo chrome hubcaps as well.

- New Hella horn.

- Vintage roof rack, but not VW.

- Minimal rust. Very minimal.  (makes my '66 look like a pile of poop)

- And more.


The Bad:

- Question of its a real Sundial.  Still a good camper though, just not sure 
if it is correct or a fake.

- Tranny is unknown to me.  But it hits all gears just fine and has fresh 
GL-4 in it so I am assuming it is a runner. No popping out of gear that I 
have seen or grinding.

- No rear bumper.

- Rear camper cushion/bed over the engine is missing.  Seems to be easy to 
make one though.

- Needs a good paint job.

- Pinhole rust in the drivers side rocker.  Could probably be filled with 
bondo easily or lead filled.  See the pictures, it is not bad at all.

- Small rust hole in drivers "dogleg".  See above.

- Some play in the steering box, but I will try to adjust it and fix this 
issue.

- Baywindow M/C.  Some people do not like this.  Can be converted back to 
'67 only M/C later if you want.

- Drivers seat bottom needs recovered.


Again it is a very solid bus and would be a great daily driver or weekend 
camper.  Come in and drive her home.  Put a paint job on her and it would be 
an awesome bus.

$3000 obo.  I am in Marietta (Atlanta) Georgia, drop by anytime to check her 
out and talk VW.  I would like to sell her ASAP, but really do not need it 
gone.  Please no tire kicker or "lookie-loos", I do not have the time to 
waste like that anymore.  Will be posted on TheSamba.com when I get a chance 
so you all can see some pics.  Can deliver to a degree with a deposit on the 
bus.  Always willing to trade a little bit for "go-fast" T1 or T4 engine 
parts.

This is a solid bus at a very fair price.  Not a clunker.  This is a real 
driver.  I have seen much worse go for way way more money.

Have loads of digital pictures I can e-mail as well.

My e-mail is apillow(-at-)hotmail.com


Thanks for looking,
Adrian Pillow

_________________________________________________________________
Tired of spam? Get advanced junk mail protection with MSN 8. 
http://join.msn.com/?page=features/junkmail
