From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 18 Dec 2004 22:29:05 -0500
Subject: German Pagid Brake Shoes:  Hurry, price going WAY up!

A couple of weeks ago we were discussing the fact that the devaluation of
the US Dollar will cause the prices of German made parts to skyrocket. I
didn't mention any specific parts, but this is one that I think deserves
special mention for several reasons. First of all, because of the severity
of the upcoming price increase. Secondly because it's something everyone
needs, so you can safely stock up now at the old price and know you'll
definately use them sooner or later.

Pagid, an OEM brake supplier to VW, is the last remaining full-line German
supplier of Bus brake shoes. They don't export their Bus shoes to the U.S.
so I have to import them directly from Germany. It's worth it, however,
because of the quality difference. All that's available here in the U.S. are
generic resurfaced shoes (often from Mexico). The Pagids are not even in the
same class as these "white-box" shoes. They're brand new, not resufaced used
shoes. The use OE quality materials. They last longer and stop your bus
better, which is very important.  (Brakes are a dangerous place to cut
corners.)

Unfortunately, Pagid just raised their prices drastically. Prices are going
up a whopping 15 to 30 percent on my next shipment (arriving in about a
week). I'm still going to carry them, because despite the higher price
there's no simply other high-quality alternative, but this big price
increase is unfortunate. (Get used to it, though. As I said before, with the
dollar sinking to new lows every day, all of the German suppliers are poised
to do this. If you need German parts, the longer you wait the more you will
pay. This will continue as long as the dollar continues to drop, which is
likely to be quite a while according to economists.)

You have about a week to still get them at the old price. On most shoes,
this is $29.95 a pair. That is a bargain for the quality of these brake
shoes, and a price that I'm unlikely to see again for a long time if ever.
My strong advice is to stock up on a couple of sets while you can. There's
no harm in putting an extra set or two on the shelf in the garage, because
you know you'll use them sooner or later.

I have pretty good stock on most of them. But even if I sell out, once you
place your order it will lock you into the lower price, even if we have to
ship them from the new shipment arriving around Christmas. On the other
hand, once we check in the new stock, the website prices will be updated to
reflect the new cost, and that's that.

To find the ones that fit your year, go to www.busdepot.com, click on the
year range of your bus first, and then search for keyword PAGID in the
search box on the main (white) page. (As opposed to using the search box in
yellow menu bar on the left, doing it this way will narrow the results down
to just Bus shoes for your general year range). I have them for 1964 thru
1979 busses, as well as Vanagons.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
