From: "The Bus Depot" <type2(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "'Type 2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 22 Mar 2006 13:46:31 -0500
Subject: KONI Group Buy Shocks now available again! 

Some of you may remember the previous list buy on Koni bus shocks, which
sold out rather quickly.  I'm happy (and surprised!) to say that I now have
more of these rare shocks in hand.

To recap, these are by all accounts the best shocks you can buy for your
Bus. They are adjustable so you can actually 'dial in' your desired ride
upon installation, or readjust it later to compensate for wear or changes in
preference. By comparison, all other shocks are 'factory set' for a ride
that may or may not agree with your tastes, and as they age the ride
gradually gets softer and there's nothing you can do about it other than
replace them.  Richard Atwell had learned about these shocks, which had long
since been discontinued by Koni, and actually managed to get Koni to agree
in principle to do a custom run for us at their factory in the Netherlands.
He then got me involved to work out the logistics and negotiate a better
price, and a list member group buy resulted. List members left deposits and
the shocks arrived about two months later. Unfortunately, demand far
exceeded supply (even after Koni agreed to a second run), and I had to turn
some people away.  Subsequently, Koni indicated an unwillingness to produce
more, citing a change in corporate policy against doing custom runs.

Until a couple of months ago, that is, when out of nowhere they reversed
their position and agreed to do another run for me.  From what I've since
learned, Koni can be a bit fickle in that regard. In at least one instance
the opposite happened; they agreed to do a custom run only to change theiir
minds and cancel the order. (Fortunately, in this case their change of heart
was in our favor.)  Having heard this, rather than count my chickens (or
shocks) before they hatched, I decided not to take deposits and pre-orders
as with the last group buy, but instead wait until they were actually
in-hand, just in case they never materialized. This morning, true to Koni's
word, they showed up at my door.

These shocks have been covered extensively on the list, so there's plenty in
the archives about them if you want to read up. Richard Atwell has an
excellent write-up on them at  <http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Koni.html>,
and they've been highly touted on TheSamba. The consensus has been unanimous
that they are simply the best you can put on your Bus. In addition to their
unique adjustability and excellent performance, they carry a lifetime
factory warranty (through Koni's U.S. office, not us).

Here are the links to order. They are $99.95 each for rears and $104.95 each
for fronts. This is the same price as last time on the rears, and $5 more on
the fronts, due to a price increase from Koni. As before, further list
discounts do not apply. Also, I should note that if you have a '68-69, only
the rears will fit your Bus.

Front:

<http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=802110>

Rear:

<http://busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=802220>

There's no question that these will sell out (probably quickly), and no
telling if Koni will ever make more.  Therefore, I am requesting web orders
ONLY for these, as if they get oversold I'll use the date-stamps on the last
few web orders to figure out who "got in under the wire" and who didn't.
Based on the history of the last two group buys, I'd advise you to order
them soon if you want them, or you will probably miss out.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT
