Date: Wed, 1 May 2002 18:15:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: Travis Harper <flowinkool(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 81 Vanagon for sale San Diego

Hi everyone. As much as I hate to do it I have to sell
my Vangon to pay for school. I just had the motor
rebuilt (2000cc fuel injected) and there are about
3,000 miles on it. Just broken in. The pop top is in
great shape and all the seals on her are in good
shape. I recently put in a new brake booster and
master cylinder. The tires are almost brand new, and
the brakes are in good shape.there is no rust on the
vehicle. The paint is in okay shape. There are two or
three small dings on the whole thing. The body is
straight otherwise. The color is tan with a brown
interior. It has an Icebox and sink. I had originally
intended to travel in the vehicle but life just seems
to happen and for now I have to put my journeys on
hold. I've done alot of work to the vehicle and have
over $4,000 in receipts. I have to take a hit on this
one and sell it quick to pay for my loans for school.
I'm asking $3,300 or best offer. This car is ready to
roll as I have gone through almost the entire vehicle
to assure that it would get me through Mexico and the
U.S. . For someone out there this is a great deal if
they know what they are looking for. If you are
interested in her please send me e-mail at
flowinkool(-at-)yahoo.com and I will respond within a few
hours. i have one pic of her but can take more if you
would like. The Vanagon is located in San Diego. Well
thanks for taking the time to read this. E-mail me if
you are interested. Thanks.

=====
Travis H.-Sand King Flowinkool

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Health - your guide to health and wellness
http://health.yahoo.com
