Date: Sun, 8 Jul 2007 14:29:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: doug sornberger <doug_sornberger(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 71 Front Brake Hoses

Hi Volks,

I cut a trip short because a front brake was
dragging.  The passenger side got hot enough to
smell the second time and we knew it was most
likely us, pulled over and put my hand on the
wheel and sure enough.  Having been through this
before in a bug I am assuming it is the rubber
brake line that has shut on the inside.  Napa
Auto Parts gave me what I think  are the wrong
hoses, one is shorter, and the other is longer
then what are on there. Part number 27301 is on
both boxes.  Is there a left and right, the old
ones look the same.  The Napa hoses have
different ends too (see pictures at links below
or p mail me).
Anyway, I am glad I decided not to make this
repair on the road. Experience has taught to
check for the right parts first.  Never assume
what they give you is the right one.  Someone
said parts are getting hard to find and this
proves it.  I think I will return these to the
local Napa and order from busdepot or somebody.
Please look at the pictures and tell me I'm
crazy.  It could be that someone put a different
front end on my bus too.  My repair manual sucks,
I need to get a Bentley.  Has anyone tried the
Bentley DVD?  Could you share a diagram with me? 
Other wise I will buy one and share with all...

Thanks  Bunches
Doug 1971 Westy
Alameda

Pictures:
http://autos.ph.groups.yahoo.com/group/vw-convertible/photos/view/25c1?b=29&m=f&o=0

http://autos.ph.groups.yahoo.com/group/vw-convertible/photos/view/25c1?b=28





       
____________________________________________________________________________________
Need a vacation? Get great deals
to amazing places on Yahoo! Travel.
http://travel.yahoo.com/
