Date: Thu, 22 Apr 2004 07:09:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: "J. P. Henriksen" <a59camper(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Bus List <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: List Buskatiers <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
Subject: Two trips, not enough gears! (a littl long)

In the last two months, I've made two trips to
California for campouts, shows, and family business. 
Other than the price of gas and teething problems with
my new stroker motor, I lost a gear on each of two
transmissions on each trip!

March saw me at the Dillon Beach campout, time with
friends and family, then on to the GREAT new
Bakersfield show and back to New Mexico.  Just before
the NM state line, my bungee'd 4th gear popped out and
could NOT be persuaded to stay in place.  So the last
150 miles, I drove at 42-45 mph revving it up in
third.  Scary!

So I got back OK, put the new motor in my flipseat w/
the freeway flyer, and took of for BYOB/Red Barn, and
again, friends and family.  Something was slipping,
but I pulled the drums, splines OK, loosened the
clutch, still slipping.  I didn't happen to notice
that it was always in third gear so...  After Red
Barn, you have to sprint up the hill, get in the left
lane and pull a u-turn to go north.  I hit the
throttle, hit 3rd, and heard something bad.  Changed
to 4th, mad the u-turn, accelerated down the hill, and
WOW!  NO third gear.  Just an empty hole in the shift
pattern.

Luckily, my stroker motor was srong enough to pull the
hills without downshifting all the way back to
Albuquerque, but blowing two transmissions in two
subsequent trips to California was something else. 
That stroker was GREAT; passing trucks going uphill!

Picked up a new freeway flyer trans on the way back,
so now to work so I can get to Colorado for VWOTG next
month.  Life is full of surprises.  Even expensive
ones sometimes.

JP
