Date: Wed, 12 May 2004 05:20:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: belly pans....

hhhmmm.
  I am almost 100% sure that a bus with a belly pan
either has or had a gas heater. I havent seen that
many
but the belly pans that I have looked at were not
structural... in other words.. I dont see how they
would be considered to add to the rigidity of a bus's
body. The
ones I have seen are pretty light weight and are
bolted on..anyone seen one welded on?
  as to the "front belly pan" That is just a shield
and
is definatly not a structural addition. It is there to
deflect
road hazards.... My 74 is a sunroof and has no belly
pan and there is no sign of it ever having a belly
pan. having said all of this there may have been some
aftermarket campers like ASI or doormobil that
installed a structural belly pan.. I would be curious
if anyone has a belly pan that is actually stout
enough to add to the ridgity of the frame/body. I cant
imagine anyone welding a plate over the bottom of a
bus as it would make it impossible to get at some
working parts.

curious(-at-)Seattle

=====
~DAS BUS~~~ http://www.geocities.com/vw_bus_74/index.html
~WetWesties~~ http://wetwesties.type2.com/
~~~~~~~~~Recta non toleranda sunt!~~~~~~~~~~
