From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Sat, 10 Jul 2004 15:29:57 -0700
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus NOT for sale! :-)

What Bob said. But also this:

You are going to have to slow down and pace yourself, Don. Bringing a 
bus back from a near-death experience (the bus's, not yours) is a 
marathon. Reviewing all of your posts to the list, it seems you bought 
the bus sometime in February. You have been sprinting ever since. And, 
as everyone knows, you cannot finish a marathon if you start out 
sprinting.

I've said many times that a bus will cost, on average, about $4000 
before it begins to be moderately comfortable and reliable. Now I will 
add to that: it also takes about a year. You are doing three things at 
once: rehabilitating the bus; developing general and 
air-cooled-specific skills, and getting together the necessary parts 
and tools. That takes time, and it requires that you make mistakes. 
You've got to give that time.

Maybe you need a little zen. People on the list who don't live in 
California think our state is one big hippy commune, but those of us 
who live here know that Anaheim is about as zen as Lima, Ohio. Still, 
there are libraries.

The first rule of keeping a VW bus is that it doesn't matter if it 
runs. The second rule is that it can and should run perfectly and 
reliably. Thats a koan.

Good luck. And, as my favorite geology professor said to us every time 
he took us out on a fieldtrip, quit your bitchin'.


Mark Hineline
