From: James Treanor <jtreanor10(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: nathaniel vincent <nates78bus(-at-)gmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 24 Mar 2007 21:59:30 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] bodywork on my bus continued

Chemical strippers, bad.  I hit an area on a 40 Ford wheelwell with a wire
brush after some citrus based stripper had been applied and dried- once it got
to my sinuses I was in pain I never imagined possible.

Get an angle grinder, of good quality and amps.  The wire wheels that fit
them, both corse and fine are great for taking it down to the metal.  Cutting
disks will be necessary to slice out the rot.  I take the guard off of the
grinder and cut it down so I have a place to brace with my thumb but I can
make a full cut to either side.  That may take some more explaining.  In other
words, I cut the guard so it is centered on the grinder without extending past
the body of the tool.  A full set of body hammers and dollys are also a great
investment.  Then there are shrinker/stretchers, bending brakes, beaders, and
you will definitely need a flanger.  Probably best to 'apprentice' yourself to
some local volks who are into doing their own metalwork.  You know there's a
problem and you care enough to try and fix it.  That's the most important
part. JT Beaufort, SC Running: 1. 62 404.1 Kompressor 2. 58 VW panel 3. 66
sedan 4. 77 transporter 4. 77 westie Resting: 1. 71 transporter 2. 71 single
cab 3. 75 Westie 4. 61 doublecab 5. 63 doublecab 6.67 samba 7. 62 Willys wagon
http://www.fortunecity.com/silverstone/garage/7/
_________________________________________________________________
Take a break and play crossword puzzles - FREE!
http://games.msn.com/en/flexicon/default.htm?icid=flexicon_
wlmemailtaglinemarch07
