To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
Date: Mon, 13 Oct 2003 13:25:42 -0400
Subject: Bus Camping is the Best Camping

I know its not friday, but it is sort of a holiday so maybe that counts. My
wife, 6 month old (Max), and I went camping this weekend in the bus (78'
Champagne Westy). We wanted to try and see the fall colors. We drove out to
George Washington National Forest in Virgina and West VA. First went to
Wolf Gap and were going to hike out to Big Schloss but there were too many
other people already there so we went to Trout Pond a few miles west and
south of Wolf Gap. Spent the day hiking there and enjoying the water.
Didn't catch any fish though. Then we left and drove up to a more primitive
site in the GW forest known as Hawk. Its about 3 miles east of Warrenton WV
and pretty much right on the VA WVA line. Great spot to camp plus its free.
The camground was almost full and a number of folks stopped by to check out
my "RV". They were amazed that something made in the 70's could be this
useful for camping today. I had as much sleeping space as you possibly
need, Max slept on the kiddie cot and my wife and I up top. We cooked
breakfast and dinner on the stove and cleaned up with the sink.  BTW the
hot water bucket/thermos idea from you guys was great. Was that from a high
roof or a riviera or something else? It was on the list a few weeks ago. We
kept our beer and food ice cold in the 12v fridge which worked like a
champ, even kept my ice cubes from melting for my cocktails, and the aux
battery held up all night.  A nice fellow from a few sites down gave us a
whole pile of oak firewood because he had extra and was so psyched by the
bus. The next day we drove to the Woodstock observation tower which sits
atop a mountain overlooking the town of Woodstock, VA and the Blue Ridge
mountains. Quite a steep dirt road to get to the top but the bus handled it
like a champ. Speeking of driving, man the cooler weather has made the bus
run so nice in the mountains. Oil temps hover at 210 with pressure at 60-80
lbs and head temps peak at 400 on the tough climbs. The best thing for
these types of trips is a Gazeteer map book. It shows all of the back
country dirt roads that take you through the mountains and to all of the
cool spots. It even shows campgrounds, fishing spots, 4X4 trails, hiking
trails, and is a topo map to boot. We left the observation tower and slowly
20-25mph made our way down the east side of the mountain and up though a
pass to the next range. We found a really idyllic stream where we took
photos of Max while the leaves of all colors were raining down on us. After
a few cold beers (fridge still working great!) we drove on through the
forest keeping to the slow moving dirt roads until we got to the Shenandoah
river where we had some lunch and I waded out to try my luck again. I only
had one lure with me and it wasnt so good for the fast moving water of the
Shenandoah so no luck again. We lazily reclined on the river bank enjoying
the fall colors and each others company then made our way out to route 340
(paved) and on to Front Royal then home to Arlington VA. All in all a great
trip and yet another weekend reaffirning why I love my bus! Hope you love
yours as much too.


Theodore Reshetiloff
78' Westy Possum
treshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com




***********************************************************************************************************************

The information in this e-mail and any attachments may be privileged and
confidential.  If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the
sender and do not disclose the contents or make copies.  When addressed to
our clients, any opinions or advice contained in this email or any
attachments are subject to the terms and conditions of the Cambridge
Associates client engagement agreement.

***********************************************************************************************************************
