From: "Messa, Corbett (IndSys, GEFanuc, NA)" <Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 14 Oct 2003 11:02:59 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Bus soundproofing - a long-lost URL

I had similar experience with this stuff and several other types of sound
absorbing material. With all of the ones I tried, you have to work in warm
weather. I even got some of the Q pads and they were the same. The JC stuff
is nice, but thinner than the Q pads. I used 3M adhesive to apply mine. It
seems to be holding fine. I used it on all vertical surfaces that I could.
It made it through this summer, so I am hoping that it will be fine. No
abnormal smells or anything. The sound damping seems to be good. The sides
of the bus sound solid now. I am sure it is not as good as some of the more
expensive materials, but it does work. Just like most things, the more you
spend....

I applied this material, then sprayed and hand painted over it with any
available undercoating paint I could find. I tried several and stuck with
some thicker undercoating, but I cannot remember the name right now. After
that I applied the NASA insulation, again using the 3m adhesive. I then
packed the walls with insulation and then finally covered with plastic.
Pretty much like the website showed. I probably did not do as good a job as
he did, but anything is an improvement.

Be careful when applying the NASA stuff around the cabinets and floor. Some
places I got to liberal and the bolts to attached the cabinets and seats to
the floor were to short. I had to cut some of the material back out so that
things would fit right.

Corbett
