From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>, "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 13 Sep 2002 06:33:33 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel warning

[...]

That orange ball place is advertising that they have removed MTBE from all
their fuels. MTBE (methyl tertiary-butyl ether) is a chemical compound that is
manufactured by the chemical reaction of methanol and isobutylene.

They replaced it with something else. But they are mum about it.
It may be ethanol.

MTBE has been used in U.S. gasoline at low levels since 1979 to replace lead
as an octane enhancer (helps prevent the engine from "knocking"). Since 1992,
MTBE has been used at higher concentrations in some gasoline to fulfill the
oxygenate requirements set by Congress in the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments.
(A few cities, such as Denver, used oxygenates (MTBE) at higher concentrations
during the wintertime in the late 1980's.)

On March 25, 1999, Governor Gray Davis released Executive Order D-5-99 that
ordered the removal of the additive MTBE (Methyl Tertiary-Butyl Ether) from
California gasoline at the earliest possible date, but no later than December
31, 2002.

On March 15, 2002, the Governor issued a new Executive Order and announced a
one-year extension to the phase out of MTBE. "Under the newly announced
timeline, the MTBE phaseout will be accomplished no later than December 31,
2003. Individual refineries have may continue to make the transition to
ethanol earlier than December 2003 if they determine it is feasible and will
not risk supply shortages or price spikes."



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


I just wanted to give some of you a heads up about a motor fuel. We just had a
problem with something.. a mysterious liquid sediment, heavier than gasoline,
found in our fuel tank after problems with engine idling (dying) and running
(backfiring and running rough, lack of power). We buy 95% of our gas from the
same company outlets (same corp, two stations). These particular stations
often feature a large, rotating, illuminated orange sphere. We generally use a
91 Octane. Last week I had problems with another engine not idling. The 91
truck has also been stalling out and running a bit rough, but we thought it
needed a tune up. Well, tonight, hubby was stuck at work and called for a
rescue. I came out with a family friend and tools. Friend is also very
knowledgeable about engines and fuels. So, he brought out some clear
containers and we sampled the fuel. It has a clear liquid settling out of it.
We thought, "Aha! Water!", but when we tested it with a water testing paste,
there was no reaction. According to some other past experience, we think that
it may be an alcohol product that was introduced or blended to raise octane
and/or lower emissions.. but it is separating from the fuel. There were also
small bits of rust in the fuel filter, and alcohol can introduce rust problems
too, because it absorbs moisture. I could go on, but suffice it to say that
this needs watching. I could see the line of demarcation between the lighter
fuel in the test container and the heavier clear liquid. We are going to look
into further testing with an alcohol sensitve paste. Will keep you posted.
Jan B


