From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 28 May 2002 10:59:41 -0700
Subject: 'Faw' brand visor post NEEDED

Hi All,

I got the new motor for the tipper installed and almost have it ready to
fire up and go... the front end is back together after the kingpin rebuild
project...(both web pages updated)...

Yesterday,  I was sifting through several boxes of stuff from the tipper and
deciding what was destined for the 'Relic' box and what was to be cleaned up
and returned to the truck (tool kit, garden supplies, etc) and I thought I
would replace the passenger side sun visor since I found a set at the
Puyallup show for a good price.  Anyway, I first noticed that the vinyl
material was quite different between the two and when I decided I would try
and only replace the posts, I found I had two different manufacturers to
contend with.  So, I make this post in search of a 'Faw' brand passenger
side visor post.  I'll buy outright or negotiate with a GHE post in good
shape.  There is a good picture on my 'wanted web page'.
http://www.dsquared-dev.com/davem/partsim.htm

Now, I would like to ask one question which relates directly to the reason
I'm having to replace the pass side visor post in the first place....   The
base of the post was cracked when my middle daughter was climbing into the
cab and looked for something to grab to help herself in.... and there is NO
dash handle... why is this? .... she grabbed the visor instead and pulled,
cracking the base as she did it...


David
http://www.dsquared-dev.com/davem/67tipper.htm


