Date: Fri, 13 May 2005 18:26:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re:  flooring your "motor"  

> If you can't floor your motor  for extended
periods without running hot, something in the
combo is not  right (or not as good as it was
from 
the factory).

My first encounter with an aircooled vw was when
a friend of mine, a British gentleman who
happened to be an engineer, took his family and
me and my brother from WV to Cape Hatteras for
some wonderful camping on the shore.  He was a
true Vw afficionado.  He loved that vanagon and
bragged the nice ride, the power and the
hydraulic valves.  

We dropped an exhaust valve near Virginia Beach. 
The Vanagon had less than 10,000 miles on it. 
I've also dropped two exhaust valves on T4
engined busses and two on T1 engined vehicles (1
bus and 1 bug).  

It may be true that VW designed their vehicles to
perform at full throttle all the time, but it
hasn't been my experience that they ACTUALLY meet
that performance criterion.  I think most of the
consumer magazines agree that aircooled VW were
far short of reliable because of those
overheating/valve issues.  

I know for a fact that VW heads run hotter under
full throttle.  Oil temps rise too.  Oil pressure
lowers, especially if you are running thin 5W30
or 10W30.  T4 engines run even hotter than T1
engines.  I think everyone who has a set of
guages can verify this.   

I admit that I used to run full throttle a lot
and probably caused most of my own problems. 
Now, I baby my VW.  I rarely run full throttle. 
When I do, it's only for a few seconds and with
great consternation.  I also avoid low RPM like
the plague.  Lugging is just as bad as high
vacuum.  

You do what you want with yours.  


Happy bussin'
Ray

Nemo, the Bus Captain
http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain
Not affiliated or associated with VW, VWOA, or VWAG.
