From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 02 Mar 2004 19:41:20 +0000
Subject: RE: [T2] Push starting my Van does not work... <too long>

Regarding my '78 FI manual 2.0 transporter:

Ignition Switch:::  I replaced my plastic IS 2-3 times.  I have a new one in 
my ignition, and a new spare in my glove compartment.  This is the primary 
culprit.  Now, along with the new plastic IS, I have a 12v always-hot wire 
from the fuse box via an instant on/off toggle switch, tapped into the wire 
that come out of the plastic IS, the wire that returns power to the starter 
solenoid.  Even without a key, I can turn the engine with this toggle 
switch.

I measured the voltage that this line was giving to my starter in cases 
where the starter would not turn over.  I could see and read varying voltage 
at the starter solenoid, volts coming along this wire from the plastic IS.  
Now I shoot 12.5v down the wire to the solenoid from the fuse box when I 
start the VW.  I can still start the VW by turning the key the last bit.

Ground:::  My cohort and I both witnessed a ground that was only letting 3v 
pass through the system .  It was a clean connection, no connections were 
changed from when the motor would start, and we could see that if we pulled 
wire from the battery power post to the ground cable at the tip, then we 
would see 12v.  Move that wire just off the ground cable to the nut and 
there was 3v.  Move the wire from the nut to the bolt, and there was12v.  
Move from the bolt to the housing that the bolt was connected and we got the 
3v.  And all was clean and fresh and shinny, so to speak.

HS Relay::: You will see an improvement by using the HS Rely ONLY because 
you are required to clean up the connections, or at least re-seat the 
connections.  The HS Relay is a BS Relay.  I had a Ford relay originally 
that I could hear it clicking on, hear it from my drive seat with the window 
down, and still no start.  Of course I went to the Bosch HS Relay, in fact I 
bought 2-.  OK, the Bosch is a better quality relay in that I have to be at 
the right rear wheel to hear that thing click when my daughter was tasked to 
start the non-starting VW.

Electrical Connections:::  This is something you are going to have to learn 
to do.  Bite the bullet and cut off all old female connections around the 
starter solenoid, and replace them.  You can try to clean them with various 
home products, but better to cut back a half-inch into the wire and add a 
new female connection.

I don't subscribe to cutting a half-inch off the male connections unless you 
are planning a bris.

Sticking Starter Solenoid:::  Whacking the starter does nothing but vibrate 
the solenoid.  Try to whack the solenoid.  Good luck at this, though, since 
the starter is between your hammer and the solenoid.

Jumper wire:::  You might as well put a dual post electrical connector on 
the starter solenoid, so you can connect both the wire from the plastic IS 
AND another wire that you can feed back through the firewall tin along with 
the battery power cable, and be able to touch that wire to the battery 
positive post.  You will use this wire a lot when you are trying to reset 
your points and you dont want to button up everything and start the VW just 
to get a dwell reading.  Just go up to the front, turn the key on, now to 
the back and touch the wire to the positive post and read the dwell.  Take 
wire away from the positive post and go up to the front again and turn the 
key off and readjust the point settings.  Dont want to walk back and 
forth??  OK, jumper a wire from the coil to the end of the new wire that 
goes to the starter solenoid, and touch BOTH to the positive post.  I don't 
know what post on the coil to use, the positive or the negative, but if you 
get the wrong one, it will burn that coil<-> battery wire up in 5 seconds or 
less.  It is NOT the coil post that has the condenser wire.  That is only 
for the condenser wire, the dwell/RPM meter wire [RPM = tachometer, too.].  
And any wires you want to melt.  BTW, this also melts the plastic connectors 
on your points and incinerates that tiny wire from the points to the 
distributor.  Doesn't seem to hurt the condenser, though.  Strange
* ** ** * * *
AND AFTER ALL THIS FAILS, and lord, it will, then you will have to rotate 
the engine a few degrees.  It is about 1/3 rotation of the alternator nut, 
moving the engine just that slight amount.  Try turning the engine counter 
clockwise, which seems to work for me, so I don't try it the other way.  But 
only AFTER everything else fails.  Sorry, I mean to say, WHEN everything 
else fails. [Some people will rock the bus in gear, like when they are 
sitting in the driver's seat.  But they are just weird.  Come on, you know 
who you are!!  Now, admit it, you ARE weird, right?!?!?]

It is an adventure.  Not so much in getting there, but getting back home.






Barry Burneskis
'72 Westy
'78 Westy

_________________________________________________________________
Get a FREE online computer virus scan from McAfee when you click here. 
http://clinic.mcafee.com/clinic/ibuy/campaign.asp?cid=3963
