Date: Wed, 1 Feb 2006 10:39:39 -0800 (PST)
From: steve blackham <homecraftproperties(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Electric Bay Window

Greg ( and all)

The problem with hydrogen (fuel cells and a like) was
included in the last line of your article:

"""Significant obstacles still exist for fuel cell
vehicles, especially the costs of the fuel cell stacks
and of producing and delivering hydrogen."""

From what I understand hydrogen production involves
vast quantities of methane (natural gas) to produce on
an industrial level.  Natural gas is in more shortage
than  oil. (read "Twilight in the Desert" by Matt
Simmons)

With the coming "oil crisis" I am chosing electric for
several reasons"

1.  My area has a adequate supply of electric
generating assets, i.e., Coal and hydro.  I know coal
is a problem for the enviroment but in the coming
chaos the environment is going to go out the window.

2.  Should the grid not be an option, I have a
mountain stream in my front yard which I plan to make
a mill pond and a mill race to convert gravity into
electricity.  Coupled with solar voltaics I might be
able to pull the green beast out of the garage and go
for a spin a couple day a week.

I think I'll convert one of my VW rabbit pickups
first.  They are lighter and have better wind
dynamics.  If I put my Coleman generator in the truck
bed I'll have a "hybrid".

Steve Blackham
Centerville Utah

"Deal With Reality or Reality Will Deal With You"
