From: Stevie Havoc <s.havoc(-at-)intangiblerealities.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Mar 2005 10:55:39 -0700
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>, Type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Paint and/or process advice for westy pop-top?

Oops, draggin the thread off topic ...

I think it would be really cool to put in some stylish windows, 
portholes or something. Those stock windows leak and whistle something 
fierce. Well the one thats not gummed completely up by a PO silicone 
bonanza.

Something else I did when the top was off was redo the top bunk, its 
way easier to get all that wood/metal in and out without the roof on.

When I had mine off it was mid summer and I drove around for a few days 
with pretty much no roof. Anyone who has seen how much roof gets cut 
off for the Safare top can imagine the air flowing through the bus. My 
curtains would all flap out the roof and over the sides, it was pretty 
funny. Plus she looked so weird.

I too was toying with the idea of making a HUGE foam block and shaping 
a new "mid height" roof for around town, or some kinda of tonneau 
convertible top. I bought a book on fiberglass boat building, as the 
shapes seemed similar, just haven't gotten around to it yet. The only 
trouble with a "switchable top"  is if you put the sealant around the 
Safare when you mount it its considerably harder to get off again ... 
though perhaps a plush foam weather stripping would work .... hmmm ...  
motivation is flooding back.

s


> I'm going to put a temporary top on the bus when I take the high top
> off. I've been batting around the idea of glassing a custom top that
> can be swapped back and forth. One low top for daily driving, keeping
> the high top for camping trips. Plus it will fit in my garage without
> the high top. Bonus!
