Date: Tue, 1 Jan 2008 20:35:16 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Busaru Hot ~ Partial Solution

Because the engine was acting "normal" when the temp
gauge (Nordskog Pro Digital with analog dial) read 210
- acting just like it used to with readings in the
186- to 196 range... I decided to check the gauge.
(Finally!) I set up my camp stove next to the back
bumper, pulled the sensor out and suspended it in a
pan of water. I used a cooking thermometer, but when
the cooking thermometer read 218 degrees at a rolling
boil, it caused me to throw out all the comparisons
using it. Instead, I paid attention only to the
boiling temp which, at a rolling boil, is 212 degrees.
I may be technically incorrect at that as I do not
know if 212 is the exact moment of conversion, but am
comfortable with using it as my guide. The gauge read
222 degrees with the sensor near the top of the column
of water. It rose from 220 when the water started
boiling well but rose no further than 222, so I used
that as my benchmark. I wired in a variable resistor
trimmer and adjusted until the gauge reading was
exactly 212 degrees.

That did make quite a significant difference in my
perception of the way the engine was running. It ran
exactly the same as it had been, but now was not
running too hot!

Sometimes I amaze myself - I am so outspoken about the
mis-use of CHT gauges because the way they generally
get used is total nonsense - yet here I am fretting
over head gaskets, timing, injectors, after market
water pumps - when all along I had been putting all my
faith in a temp gauge that was ten degrees off!

The engine is still not running the temps I want it to
run, but the real problem is with inconsistent
circulation of the coolant. I am well aware that 30+
feet of "radiator hoses" is the big part of the
problem. Now I want to solve it and haven't a clear
plan on how to proceed. Either I eliminate the
internal water pump and thermostat and go totally
electric water pump, or some partial combo thereof;
the most logical being total electric with electronic
flow regulation to dial in the pump speed based on
coolant temp coming out of the engine.  Another
possibility is to put the radiator at the ass end and
eliminate the coolant flow problem, refocusing on a
potential airflow problem! It would be nice to be able
to get the spare tire out of the passenger
compartment!

If I do the rear radiator, I expect to route the
exhaust forward and out the side(s) giving me more
than enough room for a radiator and fan where the
muffler now resides. I want to do a swing-out subframe
so I can still have engine access from behind, but
with the top hatch it isn't totally necessary - just a
major convenience item.

I'll let you all know if I make more changes. It's
kinda tough to require the experiment to be a daily
driver! -BaH


      ____________________________________________________________________________________
Never miss a thing.  Make Yahoo your home page. 
http://www.yahoo.com/r/hs
