Date: Wed, 2 Jan 2008 19:08:27 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Busaru Hot <>Replies to All

In no particular order: Yes, the heater loop is the
thermostat bypass and the only means of engine cooling
until the thermostat opens. I do have more cooling
capacity than the engine requires - that is a problem
in getting the entire volume of coolant mixed to a
homogeneous temperature. After a couple hours of
driving, everything works really very well. I was
concerned about the #1&3 bank not getting any coolant
flow during warmup so I extended the heater loop to
include it. No negatives from that mod.

The various placements of radiators: Thanks for the
Aussie link - I was going to bring that up! They have
many conversions with the radiator underneath and it
is apparently working well. I have seen split
radiators with two in the engine compartment and one
inside with recirc or outside air to work as both a
heater and a cooling radiator. There are many rear
radiators as well. I was told that if I mounted the
rad out back that the flow is reversed and that the
faster the bus goes, the bigger a vortex is created
back there and that the fans just cannot pull hard
enough to move sufficient air. Once I removed all the
extra sheetmetal in the engine compartment, the subey
motor looks tiny in there. There is a very large
amount of space on both sides - more than enough to
flow an adequate amount of cooling air. I never
intended to pull the air forward and still think it's
a bad idea. 

Subey engines are flat and have problems with air
pockets developing in their cooling systems. I have
added bleeder valves at key points to bleed off the
trapped air. It's been very useful.

Old time cooling system theory dictated that cooling
systems be configured such that the outlet from the
radiator be on the same vertical plane as the intake
to the engine. The upper outlet / inlet configuration
did not seem to be of as much importance. If the
bottom was not level, air locks would occur. Modern
circulating pumps supposedly have eliminated that
problem, but in my case, I believe that the Subaru
pump is barely adequate for the gallon or less and the
very short travel that the cars have. To further
inhibit modifications, the pump is driven by about a
1/3 wrap of the back side of the cam belt. Remove the
stock pump and you need to replace the pulley to keep
the cam belt tensioned. Any oil film finds its way to
the cam belt and that 1/3 wrap is not adequate surface
area to positively drive the pump.

There is an electric pump made in Australia that has
the capability to replace the stock pump. With its
controller, it can act as a thermostat also. In oreder
to use this most effectively, one would need to
disable the mechanical pump and remove the thermostat.
The microprocessor would then monitor engine heat and
provide circulation flow at whatever rate is necessary
to maintain even engine temps.

Other engines besides Subies: The idea of using an
inline VW motor is probably the most sensible. I do
like David's idea with the diesel as biodiesel is a
good alternative currently. One of the most raved
about conversions is the Toyota 2TC or 3TC as they are
extremely simple to work on, very torquey and smooth
enough.They are, of course, old technology. Anything
new will require you to make a computerized engine
management system work in a platform that never had
anything of the like. With any inline motor, if you
trim away all the extra sheetmetal that the cooling
tin mated up to with the stock aircooled, you're going
to have enough room around the engine for massive
amount of airflow, supporting the rear radiator
concept.

Electric fans function more efficiently as "pullers"
than as "pushers."

The "air scoops" on the upper corners of the bay buses
served the function of keeping the air pressure stable
such that an airlock could not occur and cause the
aircooled engine to overheat. Their function as scoops
is not widely acknowledged. 

The "Road Cow" was a conversion a few years back that
had the radiator mounted on the roof above the engine
compartment. It worked very well for them.

Greg - 2 questions: the Mexi tranny is it designed to
bolt up to the engine you have in mind or is there
another reason?
The water boxers - what diameter coolant lines did
they use and were they the same for cool side and
return side?

I think I have covered everything! Sorry my conversion
pictures are not available currently. Maybe I'll get
motivated and get them up again. 

Thanks for the thoughts and ideas.-BaH


      ____________________________________________________________________________________
Be a better friend, newshound, and 
know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile.  Try it now.  http://mobile.yahoo.com/;_ylt=Ahu06i62sR8HDtDypao8Wcj9tAcJ 
