Date: Sat, 20 May 2006 16:33:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: s r <bugs1973(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, wetwesties <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Dead #3 cyl./ Motor Needed

Hello I have been helping out a friend trying to get
her 78 bus (with a 73 engine and type 3 dual carbs)
running. She lives in her bus full time, so keeping it
running is important. Today I was working on her carbs
tying to get them to idle smoothly, but could't,
something major was wrong with the 3/4 side carb. It
kept blowing gas out the top of the carb instead of
sucking it in. I finaly decided to do a compression
test, A 100 pounds all around except #3 is at 0. so
tomorrow I am going to adjust the valves to see if any
improvment, but I am doubtful. 

     This motor needs more work than I am able to do.
And she can't afford a complete rebuild, So I am
looking for a good running or rebuilt 2000cc motor
with either dual carbs, or complete fuel injection. In
Southeast Idaho, or the Salt Lake City, Utah area. If
any one knows of any for sale please let me know, and
I can try to come pick it up. I think it would be
cheaper and less time consuming then trying to fix
what she has.

Thanks, 
Shawn Reed
Pocatello, Idaho
78 Westy
79 Bus

Shawn Reed
  Pocatello, Id
   
   http://www.worldisround.com/articles/280838/index.html?e
