
(direct copy/paste of the text - images not found yet)


Tuning Dual Weber IDF Carbs on the VW Type 1 Engine 

A fact - Weber carburetors never come out of the box clean or jetted perfectly for 
your engine. If you order a set, they may come to you in the ballpark, but every 
engine is different, even two engines built with the same parts. You're going to 
be needing some different jet sizes. No way around it, if you want to get it 
right. Buying jets is just part of it and you have to be ok with that if you want 
to go to the trouble to tune things well. Jets are expensive, so if you know 
someone that has a stockpile of them to lend you, get them and start tuning away. 
If not, you'll end up with a few sets that you can probably sell off for close to 
what you have in them. 
"Ok, well, I'm smart.. and I am handy with the drill bits.." Well, good for you, 
sport. For the most part, stick to correctly sized and calibrated idle jets. The 
holes are SMALL, and small defects in your drillings will add up to big 
discrepancies in fuel delivery. If you want to get handy with the main or air 
correction jets, go for it, they're much bigger and will not suffer so badly 
because you sneezed. 

First things first. If you do not have an understanding of the otto cycle, go read 
about it so you know that what the engine does with intake and exhaust are not 
separate events from each other. The exhaust cycle contributes to the intake 
cycle. Given this fact and the carburetor's dependency on the health of the otto 
cycle, you must make sure that your engine is healthy before you spend any time 
tuning your carburetors. 
Your engine's health - Are your valves correctly adjusted? Is your timing set 
correctly? Are you SURE? If not, find out. If you don't know what the right timing 
is, FIND OUT. Don't guess. 
Are your carbs CLEAN? Are your floats set correctly? Clean the carbs and adjust 
the floats. Here is a cleaning procedure that should clean out most carbs, 
especially new or fairly new ones. Older ones may need more attention. If you 
slack on this step, the rest will be meaningless and frustrating. 
After you adjust the floats, you need to make sure your fuel pressure is about 3 
to 3.5 psi. If it's too high or too low you will have poor results. Don't ASSUME 
anything about the fuel pressure. A stock pump under the wrong conditions can 
supply 10 psi of fuel pressure. I use an internally regulated rotary pump that 
runs about 3.5 psi. If your mechanical pump is pumping too much pressure you can 
add gaskets under it to get it right, or you can put a regulator in place. You 
also have to make sure you have the right pump and fuel pump rod combination. That 
is beyond the scope of this article. If you suspect there is a problem, deal with 
it and come back to this. I like the rotary pumps because you have instant fuel 
pressure, and your float bowls will be filled properly when you turn the key on. 

Venturi selection - For engines that rev pretty high (6000-7000 rpm), you are best 
off choosing vents that are about 2 to 4mm smaller than your intake valve size. 

For engines that are set up for torque, like bus engines, and other torque-happy 
applications, you can go a little smaller on the vents and get better low end 
response. For these, I'd recommend 4 to 6mm smaller than your intake valve size. 

So what happens if your vents are too big? You'll have reduced air-speed at low 
RPMs, which makes tuning harder. Air speed is one of the things that tells your 
different fuel circuits when to start to come on. It will be soggy down low. 

So what happens if your vents are too small? The undersized vents will restrict 
your engine's ability to breathe at higher RPMs. 

How critical is it? Not terribly, but if you're way off it will matter, and you 
will feel it. Putting 40 vents in a set of 44 IDFs with 40mm intake valves will be 
pretty soggy down low. Sticking with the 36's would be about right. Putting 28 
vents into a set of 40 IDFs on an engine with 40mm intake valves will limit your 
top end noticeably as well. A set of 44 IDFs, for example, can me made to work on 
many engine sizes with the standard 36 vents, but you might find that you could 
optimize them better if you are willing to spend the money and try some different 
vents that would be ideal for your application. 

A few notes about jets 
More recently made jets are a little different in shape from the standard ones 
made by Weber, and there are some characteristics of them that could use a little 
attention. The key thing to watch out for when installing new jets is blockage and 
burrs. Don't assume that they're clean out of the package. Many have little bits 
of crap in them that will cause you misery if you just install them. Clean them 
out with carb spray and look in them to make sure you have them clean. Compressed 
air is very handy too for blowing them out after you spray them. Get them clean 
and dry before you install them. Many have burrs along the split areas where they 
compress to fit into your jet stack or idle jet holder. Inspect for this and get 
it cleaned off before you install them, or the burrs can chip off and fall into 
the stack or holder, causing blockage. Check it all. I like to clean them, install 
them in the holders or stacks, and then pull them out and clean it again, to be 
sure.. Then you know if anything was going to chip off it did, and has been 
cleaned out. 

It's wise to invest in a set of jet gauges to inspect the jets you use, to make 
sure they have not been changed. If you trust the stamped or screened writing, you 
might end up with results you do not expect. I've had them come to me sized wrong 
a couple times. While I don't like to ream jets, I think having a reamer/sizer is 
handy for checking them, and sizing them in a pinch. I personally think it is a 
wise (albeit expensive) choice to have an arsenal of correctly sized jets of all 
increments around the range that you need to use, but that's something you will 
likely accrue if you build a few different sized engines with some different 
combinations of carbs. 

Idle jetting 
Once you've settled on your vents and your carbs are adjusted and cleaned up, you 
can choose your idle jet size. I've noted a formula in the books (basically 1.6 * 
vent size) for idle jet sizes, and I have to say that vent size has little to do 
with idle jets, on the vw engine at least. More efficient engines can benefit from 
leaner idle jets, and less efficient engines probably need a little more. 50-60 is 
the range, and there is a trend toward larger jets for larger carb bodies. The 
throttle plate size is a key factor. 
Idle jets are usually 45-65 in size, mostly in the 55 range. The rule is typically 
to multiply the vent size x 1.6 to arrive at your rough idle jet size, but what 
I've seen is that 50 to 55 is mainstream for about any 40 or 44 IDF. 55's will 
make sure you're not leaning out when you are tuning, so I start with those. 

Before you do any more, MAKE SURE the air bypass screws are CLOSED. These are the 
little screws and lock nuts that are next to the mixture screws. If they are not 
closed, you'll probably never get it jetted right. 
Now. This article assumes that your engine is in top notch condition before you go 
about tuning the carbs. That means general engine health, timing, dwell, fuel 
delivery, fuel quality, all the way down the list. And all THAT's another subject. 
After installing your idle jets, you close the idle mixture screws and unscrew 
them all about the same amount, maybe about 1.5 turns out. Then, with your linkage 
disconnected, unscrew the idle speed screws (the ones the throttle arms rest on) 
until they are no longer touching the arms, and then turn them back until they are 
JUST touching. Now turn them in another half turn or so. Start the engine, and 
after you get it warmed up a little, see if it will idle ok. Now get your 
synchrometer (Unisyns suck, get a snail if you don't have one) and use the idle 
speed screws to even it out, and get you to a reasonable idle speed. Not too fast, 
keep the idle speed down for now, and get it even. If not then turn each mixture 
screw out another turn. If it STILL will not idle well, then your idle jets could 
be too small. Now get your synchrometer and use the idle speed screws to even it 
out, and get you to a reasonable idle speed. Not too fast, keep the idle speed 
down for now, and get it even using the snail. The snail readings at a proper idle 
should be between 4 and 6 or so. 
Now go to each mixture screw one at a time and slowly turn it in (by slowly, turn 
it about 1/8 to 1/4 turn at a time and stop and wait for the response of the 
engine for a few seconds) until the engine begins to slow down (you'll be leaning 
out a cylinder). Now slowly back the screw back out (same method you used to screw 
it in) until that cylinder starts to pick up again and run smooth. This is the 
critical point in the mixture adjustment. Slowly open the screw a little more at a 
time until you reach a maximum idle speed. Don't go any further! If you're not 
sure, stop there, screw in back in until the idle drops, and then start to back it 
out again until you feel confident you have unscrewed the minimum amount that you 
have to in order to get max idle speed from that screw. Move on to the next 
cylinder. Do this until you have done all 4 cylinders. 

Now back to the synchrometer. Get them as close to the same as you can, and at the 
target idle speed you want. 800-900 is a reasonable range. Lower you can get and 
live with it, the better IMO. 
You're getting close now. Repeat the idle mixture procedure and when that is done, 
if your idle is right, you're done with the idle settings for now. If your idle is 
now off, go back to the synchrometer and idle speed screws. 

These iterations help you trim it out - you start low on idle, get your mixture 
right, and then move the idle up, and check mixture again, and if you have to 
adjust your mixture to the point that it messes up your idle, then you adjust 
that, and mixtures one more time and you should have it. If you don't have it by 
now, you are probably doing something wrong. 
So what do you do if two barrels on one of your carbs are not flowing the same? If 
it's only about quarter point or less, don't sweat it - it's most likely to affect 
your idle more than anything, maybe a weaker or more eager barrel at idle. If it 
is more than that, your carbs need attention, namely that the throttle shaft may 
be bent, or there may be a problem with the butterfly plate or its alignment, or 
something else causing different air flow. Some people recommend using the air 
bypass screws to adjust it, and this does help, but if it's more than a point off, 
it will cause problems that the air bypass can't account for. They need to be 
FIXED if this is the case. I never use the air bypass screws for more than about a 
point of difference. 

Main jetting 
Now with the idle jetting done, main jets are next in line. Assuming F11 emulsion 
tubes, your starting point for main jets is about 4.1 to 4.3 x the vent size. So 
for a 36 vent, your main jet should be roughly 145 to 155 to start. 150's a good 
choice to start with unless you're feeling lucky, in which case you can start with 
a 145. With a 145-150 main jet, you'll be pretty close with a 36 vent. Similar 
rules work for smaller and larger vents, though once you get past 40mm vents, the 
rules don't seem to apply so well. 

Air jetting 
Air jets are more empirical, but a good starting point for them is about 200 if 
you have 145 mains. If your mains are considerably smaller, like 135 or 115 or 
something, a 160 to 180 air jet is a better place to start. Start there and don't 
mess with them until you know the other jets are right. 

Synchronization 
This is a topic that does not get enough attention. Synchronization is EVERYTHING 
after the jetting is done. Synchronization will such a difference in the way it 
runs you just can't believe it when they are right. Unfortunately all the linkage 
that is out there has certain characteristics that keep your synchronization from 
being perfect all the time, so all you can do is get it close and keep after it 
every once in a while. 

The biggest problem with synchronization is keeping the geometry correct. This is 
hard to understand without illustrations of why, but if you just trust that it's 
important, you can avoid all the rest. 
Linkage 
There are different kinds of linkage out there, and a lot of people use crossbar 
linkage, while some others use bellcrank type linkage. Each one has its 
application, but I prefer bellcrank when I can use it and can get good linkage. 
Crossbar linkage: How to ensure that your downrods have the right geometry 

With your downrods, if you can position the crossbar arms so that your downrods 
are vertical (left to right), that will help matters, and complicate the situation 
less. Once you have achieved that, you can work on making sure that they are both 
at the same angle (leaning from front to back of the car). Use an angle finder, 
and read what the rods are, and use washers to get them the same. There shouldn't 
be a lot of difference to start with, if you have the right linkage for your 
setup. Different intake manifold types (offset versus straight) will use different 
linkage setups. If your crossbar is sitting at an angle with respect to your 
fanshroud, you have the wrong linkage. 

Once your downrods are at the same angle side for side, then your synchronization 
will be easier, because the throttles should now be offsetting the same amount on 
each side throughout the full range. 

Now, to synch your carbs, loosen the nuts on one downrod, and use the rod's 
opposed threads to set the carbs so they are opening at the same time. Be careful 
when doing this (I do it with the engine off) so that you don't open them a lot 
too many times.. you'll dump a bunch of fuel into the engine if you do. When you 
test, make sure that you are using the point where the cable connects to the 
throttle arm in the middle of the crossbar. If you twist at one of the outer arms, 
you will not get accurate results. Just push on the arm at the point where the 
cable meets it, so that you are applying the same force that the cable does when 
it pulls. If you put your hand on the crossbar and twist it using your thumb or 
something on the middle arm, you are still applying a force that the crossbar will 
not experience under normal conditions. 

Watch the throttles, and compare what both sides are doing. They should be opening 
at the same exact moment. Realize that as the engine warms up the geometry changes 
slightly so there may be some difference between hot and cold engine. I like to 
warm mine up before I do this. After you get them synched right, tighten down the 
nuts so that both the heim joints are centered to their positions. I rotate the 
joints so that they are both resting against the position they would be pulled to 
when you tighten the nuts, and then I tighten them. Be sure to not let the rod 
twist when you position or tighten them. You may find that tightening the nuts 
changes the geometry slightly, so you may have to compensate a little bit for this 
on the rod. 

After you get the nuts tight, check it again, and repeat if necessary. 

Why this matters so much: Once you get them synched perfect, you will FEEL how 
much better it runs, especially on low throttle lower RPM. If you have a head 
temperature gauge, you will see that when the linkage is not right, one side will 
run warmer than the other. If the left side throttle opens first, the left side 
will run warmer, especially at low throttle low RPMs. 

The last thing you should do if you have never done it: Loosen the throttle cable 
from the center arm and have someone push the gas pedal to the floor. Pull the 
cable tight, and then snug the connector. This will ensure that you do not put 
undue stress on the throttle shafts on the carbs at full throttle. If you put too 
much pressure on them you can twist the throttle shafts too much and bend them. 
This is especially true of setups that have the return spring and stop on the 
FRONT of one of the carbs, which is the way most Weber setups are out of the box. 
I use the CB Weblink kit to put the springs both on the throttle linkage side, to 
help with synchronization. 

This with some practice and a good feel for what you are doing will help a lot 
with making sure your engine runs smooth. 

Drive it 
Something you should understand about tuning from this point. Your accelerator 
pumps are going to try to fool you unless you understand their purpose and 
function. 

Accelerator pumps are there to compensate for some physics. The fact is that fuel 
is heavier than air, and it takes longer for the fuel to pick up speed in the 
circuits than it does for the air to pick up speed in the throats. So when you 
stomp the gas, the air starts moving faster a lot sooner than the fuel does. The 
accelerator pumps are there to provide a little extra fuel during that short time 
it takes for the fuel to catch up. Keep this in mind when you are tuning the jets, 
and avoid rapid pedal movements for now. 

It really helps to have a tach, and an air fuel gauge, and I would say that a tach 
is next to necessary, while an air fuel gauge is a luxury that you can do without 
unless you are FINE tuning, and going for near perfect in terms of mileage and 
power. 

Take the car out and drive it. Pay attention to what's going on at about 1500 to 
2000 RPM, and at 2000 to 3000 RPM, and from 3000 to 4000 RPM. While the RPM bands 
will vary depending on what size carbs, what vents, and what engine combo you 
have, these are pretty safe ranges to look at. 

1500 to 2000 RPM is almost purely idle jets in action. Keep the pedal steady here, 
in 3rd gear so you can see what it does with a slight load. If this area is 
running ok, move on. If it feels weak or soggy, you might need different idle 
jets. Unfortunately, it's sometimes hard to tell if it's rich or lean unless you 
are experienced here. This is where an air fuel meter will help you out. What you 
can try is opening up your mixture screws about half turn and see if it feels 
better. If it doesn't, then it might be too rich. If it does, then your idle jets 
may be too lean. For those of you with air-fuel gauges, about 13-13.5 or so is 
what I like. Move on to the next range. 

2000 to 3000 RPM is the "transition" stage. This is the part where the main 
circuit starts to take over. Your idle jets start to matter less here, and your 
air corrector jets are the progressively deciding factor for why your engine is 
running the way it is. With the pedal steady, make note of how it feels in here, 
and move on. 

3000 to 4000 RPM is where your main jets are really doing their job. With the 
pedal steady, if it feels lean here, (sort of like it is running out of fuel) then 
you might want to try going up a main jet size. If not, try going down one and see 
how it runs. Go down until it starts to feel lean (weaker with maybe some 
popping). When you feel it go lean, move back up a size and you are done with the 
mains. For those of you with air-fuel gauges, about 13.0 - 13.5 or so is what I 
like. 

Now, back to the transition stage. If it felt lean there before you did anything, 
and the main circuit felt lean, determine of moving the main jet up helped the 
transition stage. When the idles and mains are both right, the transition should 
be pretty good too. If your mains and your idles feel good, but your transition 
does not, try going up a couple sizes on the air jet and see if that helps. If 
not, try to go up a couple sizes more and see. By now you should have it cleaned 
up. If you STILL have problems with transition, something else may be wrong. Read 
the article to the left about transition. 
Accelerator pump settings 
Once everything else feels right at steady state, then you can start playing with 
the accelerator pumps. While there are different pump jets and bypass valves, you 
can usually get what you need out of the ones that come on the carbs out of the 
box. First, make sure that they are adjusted the same. Drive it, and see what 
happens when you give it gas more quickly. If when you are in second or third 
gear, and you push the pedal from cruise to WOT over the course of about a half 
second, and it bogs, try unscrewing each accelerator pump nut about 3 turns and 
try it again. If it's worse, then they were too lean, and you should go back the 
other way. Try 3 turns at a time until they are right. You shouldn't need more 
than about 1/2" of rod sticking out of the nut. If you do, you might have some 
timing issues you need to deal with. For those of you with an air-fuel meter, your 
meter's response to mashing the pedal should be as close to steady as possible, 
but that's not realistic to expect. If your engine falls on its face, and the 
meter goes lean, screw the nuts in about three turns on each side, and try again. 
Same rules for if it goes rich for any period of time, like two seconds or so. 
What I like to do is back off the screws until it falls on its face, and then 
start screwing them back in until it doesn't anymore. Too much fuel from the 
accelerator pumps is going to cause the excess fuel to wash oil off the cylinders, 
and cause you poor mileage. 

Common mistakes 
Lots of folks are driving around thinking their state of tune is good, when in 
fact, they've covered up symptoms with incorrect jetting. The only ONLY way to 
know for sure is to have an accurate air/fuel meter, but you can avoid a lot of it 
by just paying close attention to what the different circuits are doing. For 
dialing the jets, paying attention to what happens as you mash the pedal or right 
afterwards is wrong. The accelerator pump is screwing with things when you do 
that. Jetting requires paying attention to what's happening at steady state, 
during fixed RPM ranges, under different conditions. 

What happens under WOT is not an ideal way to assess your jetting, at least under 
heavy load and at lower RPM ranges. Things will go rich there, and should due to 
what your engine needs. If you have an Air/Fuel meter and it is dropping down to 
the 11's or something when you nail it, worry about some of that when you have the 
rest tuned. Don't shoot for getting that right until you get the rest right. That 
part may never be perfect, but you can get it closer after you do the rest. 

If you think you have it tuned, drive it for a while, a distance, a few days, 
whatever, and see how you feel about it. If you try to jet an engine that has been 
running really rich for a while, it may take a few stages of leaning it before you 
get it right, due to carbon buildup, and may take some new plugs to be sure. Plugs 
are another factor that has to be paid sufficient heed to get things right. That's 
another topic, but about 0.025" for stock, more like 0.040" for CDI and such. 

New engines: Never try to tune a new engine perfectly. It's going to change. I 
tend to suggest running them a little rich in the beginning to keep temps down and 
make sure you don't lean it out while your rings are trying to seat. 

What kind of mileage should you expect? Depends on how you drive. If you drive it 
like you're sick of the high gas prices you should get close to 20 if everything 
is right, maybe even more. I get about 25. You can get very good mileage if you 
lean things out close to 14 across the board, reduce your accelerator pump action 
to the very minimum, with just a hint of hesitation when you punch it, and use a 
vacuum advance distributor (SVDA) with the ports on the carbs (many have vacuum 
ports you can attach to a T fitting and then to an SVDA distributor that is tuned 
right for use with dual carbs. Not all cam/head setups are going to work well with 
an SVDA distributor, but many will do fine. 

If you drive with a heavy foot, then face facts. Your mileage is going to suck. 

Hope this helps you.
