From: "Clay Patrick" <cpatrick(-at-)teleport.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 6 Mar 2003 08:33:44 -0800
Subject: Spark plugs for 1977 Bay

    I am the original owner of a 1977 sunroof bus; original FI 2.0L engine
(rebuilt once to stock condition).  I am confused about which is the best
sparkplug.  The Library article by Jim Thompson tells about the different
driving conditions to use a Bosch W7 versus a W8, and I also see there is both
a W8CC and a W8CC0.  The article is also a little confusing in this regard:
Jim says the W8 is hotter running, but then under W7 besides saying it is a
colder plug, he says: "Usually the plug of choice when building those hi-perf
motors as well because they tend to run a little hotter than stock." (Emphasis
added.)  I thought he just said they were colder!

    The cross reference chart by Unca Joel Walker says for the 1975-1979, to
use the W8CC0.

    BusDepot says the W8CC is the right plug for the 72-83 bus.   A Bosch
sparkplug guide I found on the internet says B09171 is the right plug (which I
know is a part number, and this guide doesn't give the "W" code).

    The plugs my rebuilder put in are Bosch Super W7CC (R0768) .  I also have
been chasing down an intermittent hesitation problem which may have been due
to the plugs needing to be regapped (they had 18K miles on them, and were worn
out to .031", when they should be .024").  Regapping (and replacing the
points/condensor with electronic points) seems to have solved the hesitation
problem.  Assuming the W7CC plugs I have are colder, then I also assume a wide
gap would make them both colder and weaker.  I'm going to replace them before
a trip I have coming up, and I'm confused about which plugs to use.

    I live in western Oregon, so the climate is rarely cold like back east
(gets below freezing in the winter sometimes, but rarely below 25 F).  I drive
to and from work (20 miles on 3 miles of dirt roads, followed by 17 highway
miles).  But I also camp in the mountains and desert.  I'm planning on driving
to the Mojave in SE California in late March.  Will have cold weather in the
mountain passes, and perhaps hot weather in the desert.

    BYW, I have an external aftermarket oil cooler as well, and in normal
weather the oil temp now stays at 180 degrees.  I just replaced my 24 year old
Reevco oil cooler (which hung on the side of the bus) with a radiator-type
which now lives underneath the bus.  It is thermostatically controlled to open
up at 180 degrees.  I'll see how well it does in the heat on this trip.

    So, which plug will make me happier:  W7CC, W8CC or W8CC0?  And what's the
difference between W8CC and W8CC0??

    Thanks in advance, everyone, for your help.   Clay
