Date: Wed, 19 Sep 2001 21:53:08 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Nikki Elko <shrike3(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: locking gas/fuel flap on 68-71

Hi, everybody! I was gone for a while, but now I'm back. Again.

Now that I'm thoroughly well-versed in how NOT to do it, I'm here to tell
you how to install a lock on the 68-71 gas flap -- how I should've done it
the first time. (The best hit in the Archives linked to a 404 web page and
there was nothing in the Library.)

The lock I used is a Fort Lock Gem (NCI, it's just what they had)
barrel-key cam lock, 1/2-inch, available from my local Ace Hardware key guy
for about $10. The full instruction sheet with exploded view is on-line:
http://www.compxnet.com/pdf/fortlock//1kseries.pdf
It requires Acrobat Reader, a free download at
http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/alternate.html.
If you can't get that to work (I couldn't get it to download to my ancient
home machine), p-mail me and I'll snail-mail you a copy (fair use) for a
SASE.

I also had to buy a 3/4-inch hole cutter and the pilot drill that goes with
it, total about $17. Obviously, you want to remove the fuel flap from the
bus and secure it in a vise before you drill it. DO NOT drill it in situ on
the bus; the drilling generates too much heat to be that close to the gas
filler neck, and besides it'll just jump all around anyway. Duh. (Note: I
did NOT make this mistake.)

The center of the hole must be drilled NO MORE THAN 1-inch above the bottom
edge of the flap and NO LESS THAN 1.25-inch from the rear edge. You've got
lots of room inside that bottom edge of the body.
http://photos.yahoo.com/bc/nix5149/vwp2?.tok=bc2VUdOBPtXyOgg1&.dir=/Gooma-gabba&
.dnm=lock-4.jpg&.src=ph
If you look closely, you'll notice that a little less than 1-inch from the
bottom of the flap is better, but make sure you leave enough clearance for
the backside of the lock to clear the lip on the body of the bus (AMHIK).
You want the key slots to point to 12, 3, and 6, with 6 (shown) being the
locked position,
http://photos.yahoo.com/bc/nix5149/vwp2?.tok=bcqVUdOBe2irQXYs&.dir=/Gooma-gabba&
.dnm=lock-3.jpg&.src=ph
and 12 (up) and 3 (shown) being unlocked.
http://photos.yahoo.com/bc/nix5149/vwp2?.tok=bcZVUdOBw.2hSv9T&.dir=/Gooma-gabba&
.dnm=lock-2.jpg&.src=ph

Don't tighten the back nut on the lock any tighter than nice and snug
(AMHIK). You don't want to defeat the double-D ring that prevents the lock
from turning freely in the drilled hole (AMHIK).

Good thing I had an extra gas flap, and fortunately the lock survived the
recovery effort from the first flap. Now the Big Island of Hawaii painted
on the side of the bus has a big red square in the middle with a shiny new
lock.
http://photos.yahoo.com/bc/nix5149/vwp2?.tok=bcGVUdOBCsMec4Xk&.dir=/Gooma-gabba&
.dnm=lock-1.jpg&.src=ph

After we got done, I took him down for a fill-up and window wash, and a
nice little drive around town. Turns out the fuel gauge is jacked up (but
it works) because it was on Empty and only took about 5-6 gallons and now
it reads about 3/4 full. That's ok, I like a pessimistic gas gauge. Besides
pulling a bit to the right on braking, he climbs hills nicely and I
actually experienced 4th gear, which worked just fine. But, gad, he's an
ugly bastidge and needs a lot of work. I'm amazed the cop that passed me
didn't stop me for the taillight that's out.

I've got to get that bus muffler on there and get the stock tailpipe
assembly. Then I can put the back bumper on it.

Next we POR-15 the cabin floor and start installing camper gear. I've got a
full-sized futon in the back. I found some interesting trout-pattern sheets
at a thrift shop and am recycling some forest green sheets for curtains.
Should be cool. The girls and I are going to decoupage maps and posters on
the walls and ceilings.

Nikki

P.S. If your e-mail program breaks the links across lines and you get a
File Not Found error (or something to that effect) when you click on the
link, cut and paste the second line of the link onto the end of the URL
address in your browser and you should get the photos.

http://home.earthlink.net/~shrike3/vwpage.html


