From: "Mick McQuilton" <whoajesus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Bcc: 
Date: Thu, 19 Sep 2002 14:59:57 -0600
Subject: Sniff ... my '71 is up for grabs

Volks, it's time to put the '71 Westy on the market and where better than 
the list to offer it? The asking price is $5,000 so that will give you an 
idea of whether or not you'd like to read on. Go ahead, read on.

The bus is a beauty: what I would call a "95 percenter," meaning within the 
top 5% of '71s on the road today. She is from the Southwestern U.S. No 
rust-through and very little rust to speak of at all; what is there is 
mostly specks along the rockers where rock chips have gotten through the 
primer. The white exterior repaint was a very good job and is lustrous. The 
body is straight as can be with no dents, only the aforementioned chips 
which are also present on the nose and there is also one on the driver's 
side from, of all things, the door of another bus. Actually the rear bumper 
has a dent but Jeez, where can you find a straight early bay bumper these 
days?

The interior is original, and boy do I mean original. You will find all the 
little bits and toys in there like the cot, the hammock, and of course the 
sink, which I may get around to overhauling before it sells. The pop-top 
canvas is a bit on the dirty side but tear-free, and the top itself 
functions wonderfully. It comes with two new screens for the jalousies 
(thanks Steve in N. Dakota!) The front seats are generically recovered but 
all the rears are the original VW Puke Yellow. You will find everything 
exactly as VW put it back there.

What truly sets this bus apart from the pack is its running and rolling 
stock. There is not a major drivetrain component older than two years: 
engine is a professionally-built (Jan. '01) new-case, new-heads 1641 DP with 
an oil filter and electronic ignition ... she just hit 24,000 trouble-free 
miles and compression is still perfect at 130 all around. Other than the 
filter, Pertronix and bigger jugs, it is bone stock. The 002 tranny, also 
pro-built, has less than 15,000 on it, as do the CVs. Brakes and bearings, 
all of them, have been serviced within the last year and I even corrected 
the sag! The ball joints and torsion arms are new, as is the steering 
damper, all four shocks (KYBs), tires (Michelin LTX M/S), sway bar bushings 
and a few of the tie rod ends ... all of that within the last year. Steering 
wheel freeplay is a nice 3/4". You will LOVE the way it drives.

I could go on and on and if you email me, I will. The bus is listed on the 
Samba and Aircooled Buy and Sell but I haven't gotten around to putting 
photos up yet, which I promise I will. I would like to get pretty darn close 
to that $5,000 figure because frankly, I know the bus is worth it (and if 
you've ever done all the aforementioned work on one of them, you will 
agree). I am in no hurry to sell her, but if you are really and truly and 
seriously and fully interested, please let me know because all else being 
equal, I would prefer this bus go to a list member and I will do my best to 
make it so.

Thank you for reading, and happy motoring!

Mick McQuilton
Aspen, CO
(970)920-2489
whoajesus(-at-)hotmail.com OR mickm(-at-)sopris.net
1971 Campmobile "Luna"


_________________________________________________________________
Send and receive Hotmail on your mobile device: http://mobile.msn.com

