From: "Mark A. Thomas" <markt(-at-)duke.edu>
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 17 Feb 2002 20:58:59 -0500 (Eastern Standard Time)
Subject: distributor rebuild kit?

I have stock Bosch vacuum advance distributors on my stock 1966 
bus (and on my stock 1600 SP 1970 beetle).  I've always been 
happy with these, they've served me well, they advance smoothly 
when everything's adjusted well, etc.

There are some washers that have worn out.  A couple of fiber 
washers around the shaft, just below and above the distributor 
body (you have to disassemble the distributor to get to them).  
These have disintegrated and the metal washers are pretty worn, 
too. The distributor makes a high-pitched whining sound, 
especially when the engine is started cold (seems to somewhat go 
away after warm-up).

Can you get rebuild kits for these distributors anywhere?  All I 
want is several of the fiber and several of the metal washers, 
although I guess there might be some other nifty parts that 
would come in a rebuild kit (like the pin that you have to push 
out to take the shaft apart).

I was hoping on just fixing these with a few washers, rather 
than buying new distributors (which I guess will be an 009, 
since that's all I've ever seen advertised asa replacement).

Here are the model numbers of what's on the cars.  The bus model 
is one of them that takes the 2-part points (Bosch short number 
01-009) and the beetle model takes the Bosch short number 01-013 
points:

1966 Bus:
Bosch 0 231 137 011
VW      131 905 205

1970 Beetle:
Bosch 0 231 137 035
VW      113 905 205T

Thanks for any help.

	Mark
	markt(-at-)duke.edu

