From: "The Bus Depot, Inc." <busdepot(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "J. P. Henriksen" <a59camper(-at-)yahoo.com>, "Bus List" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 6 Oct 2001 07:00:44 -0400
Subject: Any Fiat Spider owners out there?

I recently traded a used Bus engine for a '76 Fiat 124 Spider Convertible.
Okay, maybe I'm a glutton for punishment.  But after having VW busses as my
daily drivers for years, the prospect of owning a car that could actually
get out of its own way (nearly as much horsepower as my Westy and 1/4 the
weight) was a lure too great to pass up.  (Of course, the fact that I got
the car for practically nothing didn't hurt either!)  So it won't replace my
VW's but will certainly be a neat toy to tool around in for short trips,
etc. when I don't need the features of my Westy or my Crew Cab. Boy is it
fun to drive!

I was surprised, upon discovering a Fiat BBS, to notice some contributors
who were also VW enthusaists; I even recognized a couple of customers of
mine!. There seems to be some cross-interest between owners of VW's and
other older European makes. Indeed there are some similarities between the
older VW's and Fiats: Low parts prices; widespread part interchangeability
between models/years; few knowledgeable repair shops or local parts sources
(hence heavy reliance on the internet); quirky design (some Fiats are
air-cooled and/or rear-engined); quirky operation (the heater controls on
the Spider are as counter-intuitive as the ones on my Vanagon!).  Of course,
many differences too.

Since there are Bus owners on the Fiat board, I wonder if there are any Fiat
owners on the Bus list - in particular, listmembers who either have used
Spider parts or know of a local junkyard that does.  I would be particularly
interested in trading either new VW parts, or a credit at The Bus Depot, for
any used Fiat parts that I may need.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  (215) 234-VWVW
  www.busdepot.com

