From: "Messa, Corbett (IndSys, GEFanuc, NA)" <Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 27 Oct 2003 08:47:28 -0500
Subject: Distributor and vacuum advance

Their has always been a lot of talk about the 009 distributor because of the
"flat spot" on take off caused by not having any vacuum advance. I have been
looking into getting the new 34 dual solex carbs, but they do not have the
vacuum advance port on them. The maker of the carb says to use the 009
distributor. Several on this list have said that the 009 works great with
this dual carb setup. 

The question I have is not related to the carb or the type of distributor to
use, but it is related to vacuum advance. The 009 has always been spoken
poorly of, but I am unsure why now. According to the Bentley manual the
vacuum advance for most models, except 74, use a vacuum advance cutoff to
stop the vacuum advance from working. The manual says" Except in 4th gear,
the vacuum advance is cut off whenever the air temperature is above 54
degrees F. This means that the vacuum advance is only effective in 4th gear
and temperatures below 54 degrees." Now, would this make it very similar to
the dreaded 009? 

I guess I am not understanding fully what the fuss is all about with the 009
and with the vacuum advance being so much better. I always thought that the
vacuum advance was what helped with the low end take off and stop some of
the sputtering cause by only having advance that was centrifugal? Can
someone explain this a little more clearly for me? 

Thanks,
Corbett
