From: "The Bus Depot" <vintagebus(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Jul 2003 10:14:27 -0400
Subject: Special Offer: Quilted Window Covers for Camping

A European distributor has offered me a closeout on complete sets of
quilted/insulated window blankets designed specifically for splitties.
They were made for a European retailer who canceled their order, and
have been offered to me at a reduced price as a result. These are a
unique item that is perfect for people who camp in their busses or live
in cool climates.

These window covers attach to the insides of your windows using supplied
suction cups when you are camping in the bus, keeping the interior warm
inside by preventing heat loss through the windows (which is where most
of your interior heat escapes). I'd suppose you could keep some of them
up while driving to keep the van warm in cold weather as well.  Of
course, a side benefit is that these give you privacy by covering your
windows just as curtains would. These are complete sets - a pair for the
windshields, three for each side, and one for the rear hatch window. The
exterior is a brushed-aluminum color (silver but not
aluminum-foil-bright silver) with light blue piping. 

The special pre-order price will be $129.95 per set. I have put a
special pre-order page on the website at
http://www.busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=WB1  
I may be placing my order as soon as Wed. of this week. If you pre-order
by the time my order goes in, I will order a set specifically for you,
so you will pretty much be guaranteed to get one (unless pre-order
demand outstrips supply, in which case I'll pull them off the site to
avoid overselling). If you order after that, you'll be in line to get a
set on a first-come first-serve basis once the early pre-orders have
been filled.

As with all backordered items, you will NOT be charged until they ship
(which should be around the end of August, just in time for cool-weather
camping). We'll ship automatically when they arrive.  If you put other
parts on your order along with these, those parts will be billed and
shiped right away, but the window quilts still will not be billed until
they are sent.

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
